## Update to Safe Management Measures for show galleries
---
title: Update to Safe Management Measures for show galleries

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Circulars/coh22-06

date: 22 April 2022

---

-----------------------------------------------------

  Published: 22 April 2022

Circular No : coh22-06

Our Ref : URA/COH/Circular

  

ADVISORY TO HOUSING DEVELOPERS

  

Who Should Know:  
All developers with a sale licence

  

Effective Date:  
With effect from 26 Apr 2022

  

1.  As announced by the Multi-Ministry Taskforce on 22 April 2022, the Safe Management Measures (SMM) will be eased.
2.  From 26 Apr 2022 onwards, these are the SMMs that are applicable to show galleries

1.  Mask wearing to remain as the default;
2.  Safe distancing is no longer required between masked individuals and groups;
3.  No capacity limit:
4.  Vaccination Differentiated SMM (VDS), TraceTogether and SafeEntry (TT/SE) are not required­ if there are not more than 500 persons (including developer's staff, sales agents and workers) at any one time in the show gallery. If there are more than 500 persons at any one time in the show gallery (e.g. during the initial launch of the project for sale), VDS and TT/SE must be implemented1 and
5.  No consumption of food and beverages for visitors within the show gallery.

4.  Developers of existing and new show galleries are not required to submit an updated or new SMM checklist to the Controller. Please note that it is the responsibility of developers to comply with the SMM for show galleries. The Controller will conduct spot checks on the show galleries from time to time and developers may be directed to close the show gallery, if there is any non-compliance with the SMM.
5.  As the situation is evolving, please continue to keep abreast of the latest announcements and take immediate steps to comply with the new requirements. We seek your understanding and cooperation to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19.
6.  If you need to contact us, please email to [ura\_coh\_registry@ura.gov.sg](https://www.ura.gov.sgmailto:ura_coh_registry@ura.gov.sg)



1 Where there are more than 500 persons at any one time in the show gallery, only those who are fully vaccinated, recovered from COVID-19 within the last 180 days or are medically ineligible for COVID-19 vaccines under the National Vaccination programme or children aged 12 years and below are allowed to enter show galleries.

Thank You.  
  
LING HUI LIN (MS)  
CONTROLLER OF HOUSING  
URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

  



  Download PDF Version

