## Revised Guidelines for Temporary Workers' Dormitories within Industrial or Warehouse Developments
---
title: Revised Guidelines for Temporary Workers' Dormitories within Industrial or Warehouse Developments

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Circulars/dc16-14

date: 19 September 2016

---

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 19 September 2016

Circular No : URA/PB/2016/14-PCUDG

Our Ref : DC/ADMIN/CIRCULAR/PB\_16

  

CIRCULAR TO PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTES

  

Who Should Know:  
Developers, building owners and Qualified Persons

  

Effective Date:  
19 Sep 2016

  

1.  URA has revised the guidelines for temporary workers' dormitories within industrial or warehouse developments as follows:
    
    1.  Expand the list of industrial areas where new workers dormitories (both ancillary1 and secondary2) will not be allowed;
        
    2.  Reduce the allowable quantum for ancillary/secondary uses3 and workers' dormitories within industrial or warehouse developments.
        

2.  This is to minimise increasing pressure on existing infrastructure in industrial areas where there are large numbers of temporary workers' dormitories.
    

3.  URA would also like to clarify the parameters of renewing the Temporary Permission (TP) for ancillary and secondary workers' dormitories.
    

**Expanded list of industrial areas where new workers' dormitories are disallowed**

4.  We have expanded the list of industrial areas where new workers' dormitories (both ancillary and secondary) are disallowed. New areas include Pioneer, Senoko and Ubi, while existing areas in Sungei Kadut and Tuas have been expanded. The full list can be found in Appendix A.
    

5.  For areas not in the list, we will continue to work closely with technical agencies to evaluate new applications for ancillary and secondary workers' dormitories.
    

**Reduction in allowable Gross Floor Area use quantum for ancillary/secondary uses**

6.  More purpose-built dormitories4 have been completed in recent years to provide foreign workers with adequate housing and proper amenities to meet their social and recreational needs. Given the increase in purpose-built dormitories, the allowable quantum for ancillary/secondary uses will revert from 49% to 40%. This will retain more space for industrial use. This will apply to all new applications outside the areas listed in Appendix A.
    

7.  Other guidelines for workers' dormitories within industrial and warehouse developments remain unchanged, as shown in [Appendix B](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Appendix-B.pdf).
    

**Clarification of TP renewal for ancillary and secondary workers' dormitories**

8.  TP renewals for existing workers' dormitories (including those located within the areas listed in Appendix A) will continue to be assessed individually, taking into consideration the prevailing guidelines and input from technical agencies. Increasing the number of workers in existing dormitories located within the areas listed in Appendix A will not be allowed.
    

9.  Existing workers' dormitories approved with an ancillary quantum of 40% to 49% are allowed to retain their previously approved quantum. No further increase in the workers' dormitory space will be allowed for these dormitories. However, for existing dormitories located outside the areas listed in Appendix A, URA may consider an increase in the workers' dormitory space of up to the 40% cap if their approved ancillary quantum is less than 40%.
    

**Implementation**

10.  Applicants should obtain prior clearances from relevant agencies such as HDB, JTC, LTA, MOM, NEA, PUB and SCDF where applicable. Please see [Appendix C](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Appendix-C.pdf) for the submission process for such applications. Applicants are reminded to adhere to the prevailing living space standards and amenity provision guidelines for workers' dormitories. The submission must include computations of the minimum living space provision standard per worker (consisting of bedroom, kitchen, toilet, and bathroom) and any required provision of indoor/outdoor recreation facilities and commercial amenities.
    

11.  This revised policy will take effect from 19 Sep 2016 for all applications for workers' dormitories within industrial or warehouse developments, including Outline Applications. This policy will also apply to subsequent development applications if the initial application submitted prior to 19 Sep 2016 results in an Advice or Refusal of Written Permission. Only formal development applications submitted before 19 Sep 2016, which have already been granted Provisional Permission or which will result in a Provisional Permission, will not be subject to the revised guidelines.
    

12.  This circular should be read in conjunction with the Amenity Provision Guidelines for workers' dormitories in [Appendix D](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Appendix-D.pdf).
    

13.  I would appreciate it if you could convey the contents of this circular to the relevant members of your organisation. If you or your members have any queries concerning this circular, please [Email](https://www.ura.gov.sg/feedbackWeb/contactus_feedback.jsp) us. For your information, past circulars and guidelines are available at our website [http://www.ura.gov.sg](http://www.ura.gov.sg).
    

Thank You.  
  
HAN YONG HOE  
GROUP DIRECTOR (DEVELOPMENT CONTROL)  
for CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY



1 Ancillary workers' dormitories are dormitories located within the factory building that house workers employed by the owner or lessee of the factory, as well as workers who work on-site at the subject factory.

2 Secondary workers' dormitories are dormitories located within the factory that can house workers who are not employed by the owner or lessee of the factory; as well as both on-site and off-site workers.

3 Ancillary/secondary uses support the parent industrial/warehouse operations conducted within the same development (e.g. ancillary/secondary workers' dormitory, ancillary office, meeting room, toilets, M&E services, industrial canteen, showroom, and childcare centre).

4 Purpose-built dormitories are solely used to house foreign workers. Many of them are commercially run and contain facilities such as shops and minimarts to meet the workers' social and recreational needs outside work.



**Appendix A**

<table class="style9" style="width: 100%;" cellspacing="3" cellpadding="3"><tbody><tr><td class="style10" colspan="3"><strong>List of industrial areas where no new ancillary and secondary workers' dormitories are allowed</strong></td></tr><tr><td class="style10"><strong>No.</strong></td><td class="style10"><strong>Area</strong></td><td class="style10"><strong>Plan</strong></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">1</td><td class="style10">Changi South Avenue 2/3</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A1-Changi-South-Avenue.pdf" target="_blank">A1</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">2</td><td class="style10">International Road</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A2-International-Road.pdf" target="_blank">A2</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">3</td><td class="style10">Jurong Island</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A3-Jurong-Island.pdf" target="_blank">A3</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">4</td><td class="style10">Kaki Bukit</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A4-Kaki-Bukit.pdf" target="_blank">A4</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">5</td><td class="style10">Loyang</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A5-Loyang.pdf" target="_blank">A5</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">6</td><td class="style10">Pioneer (new)</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A6-Pioneer.pdf" target="_blank">A6</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">7</td><td class="style10">Senoko (new)</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A7-Senoko.pdf" target="_blank">A7</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">8</td><td class="style10">Serangoon North Avenue 5</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A8-Serangoon-North-Avenue-5.pdf" target="_blank">A8</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">9</td><td class="style10">Shaw Road / Tai Seng</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A9-Shaw-Road_Tai-Seng.pdf" target="_blank">A9</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">10</td><td class="style10">Sungei Kadut (expanded area)</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A10-Sungei-Kadut.pdf" target="_blank">A10</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">11</td><td class="style10">Tagore</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A11-Tagore.pdf" target="_blank">A11</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">12</td><td class="style10">Tanglin Halt</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A12-Tanglin.pdf" target="_blank">A12</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">13</td><td class="style10">Toh Guan Road</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A13-Toh-Guan-Road.pdf" target="_blank">A13</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">14</td><td class="style10">Tuas (expanded area)</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A14-Tuas.pdf" target="_blank">A14</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10">15</td><td class="style10">Ubi (new)</td><td class="style10"><a></a><a href="/-/media/User-Defined/URA-Online/circulars/2016/Sep/dc16-14/dc16-14-Plan-A15-Ubi.pdf" target="_blank">A15</a></td></tr><tr><td class="style10" colspan="3"><strong>Areas zoned Business Park or Business Park - White</strong><div>Ancillary and secondary workers' dormitories are also currently not allowed in all areas zoned as Business Park or Business Park - White. These areas are intended for non-pollutive industries that engage in high technology, research and development (R&amp;D), high value-added and knowledge intensive activities.</div></td></tr></tbody></table>

  



  [Download PDF Version](https://www.ura.gov.sg/services/download_file.aspx?f={04543204-7A81-4B54-9081-EEF0FD3F1B18})

