## Pre-Application Feasibility Study on traffic impact for en-bloc residential redevelopments
---
title: Pre-Application Feasibility Study on traffic impact for en-bloc residential redevelopments

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Circulars/dc17-07

date: 13 November 2017

---

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 13 November 2017

Circular No : URA/PB/2017/07-DCG

Our Ref : DC/ADMIN/CIRCULAR/PB\_17; LTA/LPL/P76.028.000

  

CIRCULAR TO PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTES

  

Who Should Know:  
Building owners, developers, architects, real estate agencies and transport / traffic consultants

  

Effective Date:  
13 November 2017

  

1.  URA and LTA have received an increase in Outline Applications and Development Applications following the collective or en-bloc sales1 of residential properties, proposing a significant increase in the number of dwelling units (DUs) over the existing ones. From a planning and transport perspective, the significant increase in dwelling units may cause a strain on the existing road network of an area, and may lead to congestion and disamenities for residents. There will be the need to consider how the redevelopment can bring changes to our physical environment in a manner that is more sustainable and aligned with our vision for a more liveable and car-lite city.

2.  To address these issues early, potential buyers, interested parties, developers or real estate agencies (acting on behalf of collective sales committees) are to conduct a **Pre-Application Feasibility Study (PAFS)**2, where required by agencies. This study should assess the traffic impact on the area and propose car-lite measures/initiatives, traffic demand management measures and/or feasible transport improvement plans to support the redevelopment proposal. Applicants are advised to submit the PAFS to LTA for evaluation and approval prior to submitting an Outline Application or Development Application to URA. URA will only be able to support the proposed number of DUs in the applications after LTA approves the PAFS.

3.  The PAFS will enable potential buyers, interested parties, developers or real estate agencies (acting on behalf of collective sales committees) to have a realistic view of the number of DUs that can be supported by LTA and URA before the agreements or transactions for collective sales are finalised. It will also reduce the need for plans adjustment during the Development Application stage and help expedite the approval process.

**Details of the Pre-Application Feasibility Study (PAFS)**

4.  Potential buyers, interested parties, developers or real estate agencies (acting on behalf of collective sales committees) shall engage an experienced traffic consultant to assess the transport impact and recommend a development proposal that is car-lite in nature. The following should be incorporated:  
      
    1.  Assessment of the transport impact to the immediate and critical junctions (approx. 2 to 5) arising from the redevelopment, as identified by LTA;
    2.  Estimation on the supportable number of DUs and identification of car-lite measures/initiatives, traffic demand management and/or feasible transport improvement plans to be carried out and implemented by the developers; and
    3.  Estimated adjustments in the site boundary for transport improvement plans, where required (for example, setting aside land for road widening).

5.  LTA should be consulted on the types of developments identified in Table 1 below to confirm whether a PAFS is needed for the proposed site if they are undergoing redevelopment arising from a collective or en-bloc sales. We will continue to monitor and assess at a later stage if there is a need to extend the PAFS to other types of developments in future.  
      
    Table 1: Development types affected by PAFS  
      
    
    <table><tbody><tr><td><span style="font-size: 16px;"><strong>Zoning in URA Master Plan 2014</strong></span></td></tr><tr><td><span style="font-size: 16px;">Residential</span></td></tr><tr><td><span style="font-size: 16px;">Residential with Commercial at 1st Storey</span></td></tr><tr><td><span style="font-size: 16px;">Commercial &amp; Residential</span></td></tr></tbody></table>
    

6.  For information, LTA has recently updated the Transport Impact Assessment Guidelines for Developments. Please refer to the [guidelines](https://www.lta.gov.sg/content/dam/ltagov/industry_innovations/industry_matters/development_construction_resources/Street_Work_Proposals/Guidelines/TIA_Guidelines_WCP_Final_07Dec2018.pdf) to understand the standards and general technical requirements for the preparation of the Traffic Impact Assessment, which will guide the preparation of the PAFS in general.

7.  We take this opportunity to clarify that the formula to calculate the maximum allowable number of DUs for non-landed residential developments (flats and condominium developments)3 sets out the upper bound. The actual number of DUs that can be supported would be determined separately based on the site context, existing site conditions, and the traffic impact on the local infrastructure of the area.

**Implementation**

8.  With immediate effect, potential buyers, interested parties, developers or real estate agencies (acting on behalf of collective sales committees) submitting an Outline Application or Development Application for en-bloc proposals for the development types listed in Table 1 should consult LTA in advance and submit a PAFS, if required by LTA, before making the applications to URA. The PAFS will not be required for en-bloc redevelopment proposals that have already been granted Outline Planning Permission, Provisional Permission or obtained LTA's clearance for Transport Impact Assessment (TIA) before 13 November 2017.

9.  We would appreciate it if you could convey the contents of this circular to the members of your respective organisations. If you or your members have any queries concerning this circular, please email LTA at [lta-dbc\_registry@lta.gov.sg](https://www.ura.gov.sgmailto:mailto:lta-dbc_registry@lta.gov.sg) and URA at [https://www.ura.gov.sg/feedbackWeb/contactus\_feedback.jsp](https://www.ura.gov.sg/feedbackWeb/contactus_feedback.jsp).

Thank You.  
  
LINA LIM  
GROUP DIRECTOR  
POLICY AND PLANNING  
LAND TRANSPORT AUTHORITY  
  
  
  
GOH CHIN CHIN  
GROUP DIRECTOR  
DEVELOPMENT CONTROL  
URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

1 A collective sale (or more commonly termed en-bloc sale), is a combined sale by the owners of 2 or more property units to a common purchaser. The most common en-bloc sale is the sale of all the units in a strata or flatted development to a purchaser. The sale proceeds are then divided amongst all the unit owners. Other variations of en-bloc sales include the sale of all units in a development together with an adjoining development or landed properties. ([https://www.stratatb.gov.sg/applicant-steps-relating-to-ltsa.html](https://www.stratatb.gov.sg/applicant-steps-relating-to-ltsa.html))

2 Depending on the site context, it is possible that a PAFS may not be required. Potential buyers, interested parties, developers or real estate agencies (acting on behalf of collective sales committees) are advised to consult LTA early for advice.

3 URA circulars (ref: URA/PB/2012/13-DCG and URA/PB/2012/14-DCG) of Sept 2012 states the maximum number of DUs per development should not exceed the Master Plan allowable plot ratio X site area/70sqm (or 100sqm for sites within Kovan, Joo Chiat/Jalan Eunos).

  



  [Download PDF Version](https://www.ura.gov.sg/services/download_file.aspx?f={09DFD0CA-7738-42BD-ADF9-4D2BD6A09B85})

