## 2018 URA Architectural Heritage Awards: Open Call For Submissions

---

title: 2018 URA Architectural Heritage Awards: Open Call For Submissions

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Circulars/dc18-02

date: 02 April 2018

---

---

Published: 02 April 2018

Circular No : URA/PB/2018/02-PCUDG

Our Ref : DC/ADMIN/CIRCULAR/PB_18

CIRCULAR TO PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTES

Who Should Know:  
Architects, Conservation Property Owners, Developers, Contractors, Engineers, Conservation Specialists

1.  URA is pleased to announce that the 2018 Architectural Heritage Awards (AHA) is now open for submissions. This annual award recognises owners, professionals and contractors who have gone beyond the basic essentials to lovingly restore gazetted National Monuments and conserved buildings to their former glory for today's use in Singapore. They serve to set a high restoration standard for others to follow.

2.  From 2018 onwards, the URA is introducing a new award category – Award for New Design in Heritage Contexts. Given in addition to the restoration award categories, the new Award aims to encourage exemplary design of new buildings that are well-integrated into their historic context.

3.  There will be three categories for the Awards:

    - Award for Restoration  
      This is for projects that demonstrate exemplary restoration of gazetted heritage buildings. The assessment will take into account how far the project adhered to the three ‘R' principles of maximum retention, sensitive restoration and careful repair, as well as the "top-down" approach.
    - Award for Restoration & Innovation  
      This is for integrated "old" and "new" developments that demonstrate exemplary restoration of gazetted heritage buildings as well as innovation and architectural excellence of the new developments, and how the "new" draw inspiration from and enhance the "old".
    - Award for New Design in Heritage Contexts  
      This is for outstanding new architecture and design projects within a gazetted conservation site or area that is well integrated with its historic context; and which serves to enrich, and enhance the appreciation of its heritage setting.

4.  At the discretion of the Assessment Committee, a project may be conferred ‘Special Mention' for commendable efforts in some aspects of the restoration work.

5.  Application is open to all projects that have obtained Temporary Occupation Permit (TOP) or Certificate of Statutory Completion (CSC).

6.  Each application is to be submitted by the building owner and endorsed by the Qualified Person (Architect), the Qualified Person (Engineer), the main Contractor, and the Conservation Specialist if one has been engaged for the project.

7.  Eligible submissions will be judged by an Assessment Committee chaired by URA's Chairman and comprising representatives from URA, other government agencies, industry professionals and academia.

8.  Please note projects that are largely contemporary interior design works or have unapproved use, illegal works, unresolved planning issues will be disqualified. These criteria will be used to pre-screen applications received at URA's discretion and will not be assessed by the Assessment Committee.

9.  Further details of the Awards, eligibility, assessment criteria, application form and submission requirements can be accessed from the URA website at [http://ura.sg/AHAsg](http://ura.sg/AHAsg).

10. Submissions will close on Monday, 4 June 2018 at 5 p.m.

11. I would appreciate it if you could convey the contents of this circular to relevant members of your organisation. If you or your members have any queries concerning this circular, please do not hesitate to call Mr Kelvin Ang, Director (Conservation Management) at Tel: 6321 8191.

Thank You.

CHOU MEI (MS)  
GROUP DIRECTOR (CONSERVATION & URBAN DESIGN)  
for CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

[Download PDF Version](https://www.ura.gov.sg/services/download_file.aspx?f={290097F6-F1AB-42AB-8440-176076612516})
