## 2020 URA Architectural Heritage Awards: Under Review
---
title: 2020 URA Architectural Heritage Awards: Under Review

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Circulars/dc20-04

date: 01 June 2020

---

----------------------------------------------------

  Published: 01 June 2020

Circular No : URA/PB/2020/04-CUDG

Our Ref : DC/ADMIN/CIRCULAR/PB\_20

  

CIRCULAR TO PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTES

  

Who Should Know:  
Architects, Conservation Property Owners, Developers, Contractors, Engineers, Conservation Specialists

  
  

1.  Following 25 successful seasons, The URA Architectural Heritage Awards (AHA) is undergoing a comprehensive review this year and is expected to be re-launched in April 2021.  
      
    
2.  Started in 1995, the annual URA Architectural Heritage Awards celebrates and recognises owners, professionals and contractors for exemplary restoration of gazetted national monuments and conserved buildings, as well as innovation and architectural excellence for new developments in heritage context. To date, there are 135 winners and 7 Special Mentions.  
      
    
3.  As the industry and heritage sector continues to develop, a good heritage, architectural and restoration project now includes more areas of skills.  
      
    
4.  The AHA is ready to expand its scope to give recognition to the diverse skill-sets and stakeholders that are critical to a successful restoration project. It should encompass both the tangible aspects of physical restoration and the intangible aspects of creating long-term value for the community to amplify its focus on the impact of successful projects not only in the sensitive restoration, but also in promoting public understanding and enjoyment of our rich heritage.  
      
    
5.  We hope that the revamp will propel Singapore's allied architectural and heritage profession, building owners as well as community partners to higher standards and enhance the transformative impact of well restored heritage buildings to the community.  
      
    
6.  Further details of the revamped Awards will be announced together with the Call for Submissions in 2021, more information can be found on the URA website.  
      
    
7.  I would appreciate it if you could convey the contents of this circular to relevant members of your organisation. If you or your members have any queries concerning this circular, please do not hesitate to contact Mr Kelvin Ang, Director (Conservation Management) at 6321 8191 or [Kelvin\_Ang@ura.gov.sg](https://www.ura.gov.sgmailto:Kelvin_Ang@ura.gov.sg).

Thank You.  
  
CHOU MEI (MS)  
GROUP DIRECTOR (CONSERVATION & URBAN DESIGN)  
for CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER  
URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

 

  



  [Download PDF Version](https://www.ura.gov.sg/services/download_file.aspx?f={805EB4DA-50A4-47A5-AC53-65B6A95F6B59})

