## Advisory Note to Facilitate Safe and Efficient Delivery Pick-Ups at Commercial Malls
---
title: Advisory Note to Facilitate Safe and Efficient Delivery Pick-Ups at Commercial Malls

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Circulars/dc22-11

date: 30 November 2022

---

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 30 November 2022

Circular No : URA/PB/2022/11-SPG

Our Ref : DC/ADMIN/CIRCULAR/PB\_22

  

CIRCULAR TO PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTES

  

Who Should Know:  
Developers, building owners, property managers, qualified persons, architects, and engineers.

  
  

1.  Changing consumer preferences have boosted demand for deliveries, which is expected to grow further. The Land Transport Authority (LTA) and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) would like to encourage wider adoption of practices to facilitate the safe and efficient pick-up of orders (e.g. food, groceries, and parcels) by delivery riders at commercial malls. Such practices include:

1.  providing sufficient permanent motorcycle lots at malls approved before 2019;
2.  providing an adequate parking grace period to cater to delivery motorcycles; and
3.  setting aside suitable waiting bays for the vehicles of delivery riders.

2.  Some of these practices have already been implemented by malls, which have reduced the disamenities caused by the pick-up/drop-off activities of delivery riders and led to an improvement in visitor experience at the malls, while also improving the safety and efficiency of delivery pick-ups.

**Provision of permanent motorcycle parking for malls approved before 2019**

3.  As part of LTA's Range Based Parking Provision Standards (RPPS) introduced in 2019, new non-residential developments are to cater for 5 per cent of the development's total parking provision to be set aside for motorcycle parking. All new development and redevelopment applications received from 1 February 2019 as well as existing developments that undergo Additions and Alterations (A&A) works will need to comply with the RPPS.

4.  Given the projected growth in the demand for deliveries, commercial malls approved before 2019 which are not undergoing any A&A works are also encouraged to provide motorcycle parking in line with the RPPS.

**Provision of adequate grace period**

5.  Building owners can consider providing a reasonable parking grace period (e.g. 15 to 20 minutes) to allow delivery riders using motorcycles sufficient time to collect deliveries. This would be particularly useful for riders collecting orders from malls where Food & Beverage (F&B) outlets are located away from parking areas or if they might have to wait for the orders to be ready.

**Provision of waiting bays for the vehicles of delivery riders as a best practice**

6.  Malls with F&B outlets are also encouraged to provide waiting bays for delivery riders to park their motorcycles and active mobility devices (e.g. bicycles, power-assisted bicycles, and personal mobility devices) while they pick up deliveries.

7.  Waiting bays for delivery motorcycles should be located separately from the waiting bays for active mobility modes to de-conflict these movements, promote safe usage of these spaces, and complement existing motorcycle parking within the developments.

8.  All waiting bays should be clearly delineated (i.e. with an orange-coloured box and accompanying signage), safely and conveniently located at-grade within mall boundaries and be close to mall entrances to facilitate access. Please refer to [Appendix 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/SR/Circulars/spg22-01/Appendix-1.pdf) on the key parameters to consider when implementing such waiting bays.
  
10.  Please convey the contents of this circular to the relevant members of your organisation. Answers to anticipated questions can be found in [Appendix 2](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/SR/Circulars/spg22-01/Appendix-2.pdf). For further enquiries on this circular, please write to us using the following link: [https://go.gov.sg/parkingspacesfordeliveryriders](https://form.gov.sg/633f97f1a8ffe30012f83cf0). Please use [this link](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/SR/Circulars/spg22-01/Advisory-Note-to-facilite-safe-efficient-delivery-pickups-at-commercial-malls30November2022.pdf) to download the PDF version.

Thank You.  
  
LINA LIM  
GROUP DIRECTOR  
POLICY AND PLANNING  
LAND TRANSPORT AUTHORITY  
  
CHIU WEN TUNG  
GROUP DIRECTOR  
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT  
URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY





  



  Download PDF Version

