## CORENET X IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
---
title: CORENET X IMPLEMENTATION PLAN

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Circulars/dc23-07

date: 26 September 2023

---

-----------------------------

  Published: 26 September 2023

Circular No : URA/PB/2023/07-DCG

Our Ref : DC/ADMIN/CIRCULAR/PB\_23

  

CIRCULAR TO PROFESSIONAL INSTITUTES

  

Who Should Know:  
Building Owners, Developers, Architects, Engineers, Registered Surveyors and Contractors

  

Effective Date:  
26 September 2023

  

1      This circular informs the industry of the phased onboarding of new projects and existing projects onto CORENET X, so that the industry can make the necessary plans and preparation well ahead of the implementation dates.

**Requirements for Submission via CORENET X**

2       CORENET X will bring about the following two key changes to the submission process as shared in an earlier circular dated 1 Feb 2023.

a. New Regulatory Approval Process for Building Works; and  
b. BIM submissions in IFC-SG format.

New Regulatory Approval for Building Works (RABW)

3      The new RABW requires the Qualified Person(s) appointed under the respective Acts and Regulations to coordinate the building design upfront and prepare the plans for these building works to be jointly submitted to the Authorities through the Gateway process. The Authorities will jointly review the submission and issue a consolidated response.

4        All new projects1, other than projects outlined in **para 5**, submitted via CORENET X for regulatory approval will undergo the three sequential Gateway process, namely the Design, Construction and Completion Gateways. Project teams who are keen to begin piling works earlier can opt to make a submission under the optional Piling Gateway before the approval for the Construction Gateway is issued. All new submissions will also have to comply with the CORENET X Code of Practice (COP), which details the requirements for each gateway. Please refer to the details in **para 16**.

5        Smaller scale projects, such as single unit residential landed properties and single storey structures (e.g. bus stops, linkways, pavilions), will undergo a streamlined Direct Submission Process (DSP). The DSP is a direct submission to the Construction Gateway without going through the Design Gateway.

BIM and IFC-SG Requirements

6        The requirements for BIM submissions will continue to apply to new erections or major addition and alteration (A&A) projects with new Gross Floor Area (GFA) of 5,000m2 or more. The BIM submissions for new projects that are submitted via CORENET X will be required to be submitted in the IFC-SG format2 and prepared in accordance with the CORENET X COP.

New User Experience in CORENET X

7       The CORENET X submission portal has been redesigned to improve user experience. Some of the new features include:

a. Web-based submission portal with access to CORENET X functions, such as project dashboard and automated model checker3;  
b. Guided user journey for submissions;  
c. Collaborative project workspace to easily access project information; and  
d. Centralised payment portal as a single point for payments to all participating agencies.

**Onboarding Plan and Key Dates of the CORENET X Implementation**

Soft Launch

8        CORENET X will be soft launched on 18 Dec 2023. From 18 Dec 2023 to 31 May 2024, project teams will be invited to submit their projects via CORENET X during this phase. Industry participants who are interested to make submissions via CORENET X during this period may indicate your interest at [https://go.gov.sg/cxenquiry](https://go.gov.sg/cxenquiry).

Voluntary Submission

9        From 1 Jun 2024 to 31 Mar 2025, CORENET X will be open to the industry on a voluntary basis. We highly encourage the industry to take this opportunity to voluntarily submit their projects via CORENET X during this phase to familiarise themselves with the submission portal and process before new submissions become mandatory. Industry professionals are also encouraged to engage4 the agencies on the respective regulatory requirements based on the new submission process ahead of their formal submissions where necessary.

Mandatory Submission for New Projects

10       From 1 Apr 2025 onwards, submission via CORENET X will be made mandatory for new projects and the requirements stated in **para 3 to 6** will apply.

Mandatory Onboarding for All Ongoing Projects

11      From 1H 2026 onwards, ongoing projects5 will be onboarded onto CORENET X. To facilitate the transition of ongoing projects:

a. IFC-SG format, mentioned in **para 6**, will not be mandatory for these projects;  
b. Agencies' approvals and relevant permits issued under CORENET 2.0 will remain valid;  
c. Works that have commenced on site based on approvals obtained under CORENET 2.0 can continue; and  
d. Project teams will only need to apply for outstanding approvals under the respective Gateways.

12      Project teams are advised to plan for and secure plan approvals6 from all Authorities prior to the transition to CORENET X to minimise disruption to the project. Project teams with ongoing projects should minimally secure time-sensitive approvals7 that may potentially impact the project timeline prior to the transition.

13       The following table summarises the key dates and requirements.

| **Phased Onboarding**
 | **Date**

 | **Requirements**

 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **New Projects**

 | 

 | 

 |
| Soft Launch

 | 18 Dec 2023

 | Please refer to **para 3 to 6**

 |
| Voluntary Submission

 | 1 Jun 2024

 |
| Mandatory Submission

 | 1 Apr 2025

 |
| **Ongoing Projects**

 | 

 | 

 |
| Mandatory Submission

 | 1H 2026



 | Please refer to **para 11**

 |

**Support for Industry and Available Resources**

CORENET X Website, Resources, and Events

14       We encourage the industry to be familiar with the three key gateways under the new RABW and the IFC-SG submission format. The industry can do so by accessing the resources on the CORENET X website, familiarising and understanding the CORENET X COP, signing up for the relevant training courses and staying updated on the latest CORENET X events including webinars, Leadership Forums, and talks organised by various Trade Associations and Chambers (TACs). Please visit [https://go.gov.sg/cx](https://go.gov.sg/cx) or scan the QR code in **[Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Circulars/2023/Sep/dc23-07---Annex-A.pdf)** for more information.

Funding Support

15     Firms can apply for BCA's Productivity Solutions Grant (PSG) for the purchase of BIM software, amongst the other solutions supported under the Grant. This grant is a one-time support for Small and Middle-sized Enterprises (SMEs), to further support their transition to adopt BIM and reap the benefits of BIM under CORENET X.

CORENET X Code of Practice (COP)

16     CORENET X COP is a joint effort by many parties including regulatory agencies, industry practitioners and software vendors. It sets out the processes and details from the pre-application phase to obtaining TOP / CSC that industry should take note of when preparing plans for submission via CORENET X. The draft version was earlier released in May 2023 for industry's comments. This first version of the CORENET X COP has incorporated suggestions and feedback from the various stakeholders. Please visit [https://go.gov.sg/cxcop](https://go.gov.sg/cxcop) or scan the QR code in **[Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Circulars/2023/Sep/dc23-07---Annex-A.pdf)** for more information on the CORENET X COP.

Industry Training

17      We have worked with training providers and the industry to ramp up the capacity for industry training on the new RABW and IFC-SG format. Other than physical classes, we have also worked with a training provider to roll out an online module to make training for CORENET X more accessible. Please visit [https://go.gov.sg/cxtraining](https://go.gov.sg/cxtraining) or scan the QR code in **[Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Circulars/2023/Sep/dc23-07---Annex-A.pdf)** to sign up and find out more details on the available training for CORENET X.

For more information

18  Should you require any further clarification, you may submit your query at [https://go.gov.sg/cxenquiry](https://go.gov.sg/cxenquiry).

Thank You.  
  
ER. CLEMENT TSENG  
GROUP DIRECTOR (BUILDING PLAN AND MANAGEMENT GROUP)  
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY  
  
GOH CHIN CHIN (MS)  
GROUP DIRECTOR (DEVELOPMENT CONTROL)  
URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY



















  



  [Download PDF Version](https://www.ura.gov.sg/services/download_file.aspx?f={24C3EEE3-C0E4-423C-BE00-C85A31973BFB})

