## First Car-Free Sunday SG outside Civic District to be held at one-north
---
title: First Car-Free Sunday SG outside Civic District to be held at one-north

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr18-24

date: 24 April 2018

---

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Enjoy the Drone Showcase, Discovery Walks, Street Cycling Challenges and more

  Published: 24 April 2018

Walk, jog, or cycle around one-north and explore its unique landscape at a special edition of Car-Free Sunday SG this Sunday from 9am to 12 noon. Jointly organised by JTC and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), Car-Free Sunday SG @ one-north marks the first time the popular event is held outside the Civic District and Telok Ayer, and is in line with JTC's efforts to promote a car-lite environment in one-north by encouraging more sustainable modes of transportation.  
  
3.7km of roads – including Ayer Rajah Avenue, North Buona Vista Road and the scenic Portsdown Road – will be fully or partially closed within the 200ha work-live-play-learn estate to host a plethora of fun-filled activities for all ages and interests. The activities will spread across more than 10 locations.  
  
As one-north is an established innovation hub and is home to numerous startups, research institutes, SMEs and MNCs, the specially-curated programme features innovation-related activities such as robotics and coding workshops for kids, as well as showcases of the latest offerings of eco-friendly Personal Mobility Devices (PMDs).  
  
In line with the designation of one-north as Singapore's first drone estate, this edition of Car-Free Sunday SG will also host Singapore's first of its kind drone showcase, organised by the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS). The Drone Showcase aims to promote the safe and responsible flying of drones, while showcasing innovative drone applications and technologies by commercial companies and public sector agencies.  
  
Car-Free Sunday SG @ one-north will also see the Public Hygiene Council (PHC) launch the ‘Keep Clean, Singapore!' campaign with the inaugural PHC walk, a community walk that is set to attract more than 3,500 participants. Participants will also be able to enjoy a family carnival, featuring games and performances, at Timbre+, held in conjunction with the launch of the campaign.  
  
There will also be a variety of family-friendly community activities for the public to participate in. Fitness enthusiasts can look forward to mass aerobic sessions, fitness and urban street cycling challenges. Visitors can also explore Instagram-worthy spots like the Butterfly Park at one-north Park: Fusionopolis North.  
  
Car-Free Sunday SG @ one-north will be flagged off by Coordinating Minister for Infrastructure and Minister for Transport, Mr Khaw Boon Wan and Minister for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr Masagos Zulkifli. The flag off will be held at Biopolis Road.  
  
JTC CEO, Ng Lang, said, "We are happy to host the first Car-Free Sunday SG outside the Civic District in one-north. This is a wonderful opportunity for people to come together in one-north and to explore this neighbourhood. We are also very pleased to have this opportunity to work with URA and LTA to bring the car-lite message to communities in other parts of Singapore."  
  
URA CEO, Lim Eng Hwee, said, "We are pleased to bring Car-Free Sunday SG out of the city centre to another area and enable participants and the community here to experience a car-free environment at one-north and enjoy activities in the adjacent public spaces. We look forward to the continued support from our partners to collectively encourage a car-lite lifestyle among Singaporeans."  
  
CAAS Director-General, Kevin Shum, said, "There is growing interest in drones in Singapore. The inaugural drone showcase will be an opportunity for enthusiasts and the public to interact, appreciate new innovations in drone use and regulations, whilst gaining a better appreciation of how to fly their drones safely and responsibly."  
  
PHC Chairman, Mr Edward D'Silva, said, "JTC and URA are amongst PHC's strongest supporters of the Keep Clean, Singapore Campaign and there is no better platform than Car-Free Sunday SG @ one-north to celebrate the value of picking up after ourselves as we enjoy a car-free and litter-free one-north. 2018 marks the 50th anniversary of the first Keep Singapore Clean campaign launched by the late Mr Lee Kuan Yew. Each year the Public Hygiene Council celebrates this campaign with an annual month-long clean up festival called "Keep Clean, Singapore!" (KCS). Our message this year "I PHC (Pick up at Home and in Community). Do you?" plays on the name of our Council and celebrates the desired actions to Pick up at Home and in Community. I PHC. Do you?"  
  
Please refer to [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Apr/pr18-24a\(2\).pdf)  for the event map and road closure plan. Find out more [here](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Get-Involved/Go-Car-Lite/Car-Free-Sunday/CFS/About-CFS).