## Celebrate in the City with a myriad of year-end activities around Marina Bay
---
title: Celebrate in the City with a myriad of year-end activities around Marina Bay

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr18-65

date: 01 November 2018

---

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Eight marquee events will transform the district into a spectacular celebration venue

  Published: 01 November 2018

From now till New Year's Eve, Marina Bay will be pulsating with activities as , an exciting line-up of events and experiences, brings the public together to usher in 2019.

The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), in partnership with key event organisers, is bringing together all the major events happening in Marina Bay under the umbrella of  celebration on 31 December 2018.

Thrill-seekers will not want to miss **The Great Moscow Circus** and **Prudential Marina Bay Carnival** at the Bayfront Event Space. Returning to Singapore for the first time in over 10 years, The Great Moscow Circus promises high-octane and fun-filled entertainment for those looking for live heart-pounding action. The popular Prudential Marina Bay Carnival, Singapore's biggest outdoor carnival that debuted at Marina Bay last year, will return this year with 50 different thrilling rides and exciting games.

Those looking for light-hearted family fun during this festive season can look forward to the **"Poinsettia Wishes Featuring Disney Tsum Tsum" floral display** at Gardens by the Bay. Fans of the adorable stackable characters will have fun spotting Mickey Mouse and his Tsum Tsum pals as they bring a touch of magic to the year-end festive floral display in the Flower Dome.

**Christmas Wonderland**, Singapore's biggest yuletide fair, will be back for its fifth edition. Embark on a magical journey through a mirror maze, be spellbound by a world-class illusionist, skate under the stars, experience ‘snow' in the tropics and get into the festive spirit with fun carnival games and seasonal treats.

Visitors looking to quench their thirst for learning can head to ArtScience Museum's permanent exhibition FUTURE WORLD: Where Art Meets Science to view a futuristic world of immersive and interactive artworks with a festive twist. As part of the **Christmas at ArtScience** Museum festivities, enjoy a fun-filled day and welcome Santa Claus in a special festive digital universe installation, Sketch Christmas, and watch him deliver presents across Singapore.

Over at Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay, music lovers can gather for a time of collaboration, reflection and revelry at **Come Together**. They can also enjoy three days of alluring vocal performances including a cappella, jazz, doo-wop and  at **Voices – A Festival of Song 2018**.

On New Year's Eve,  will conclude on a high note with the **Marina Bay Singapore Countdown** celebration. Continuing with the theme "Bay of Hopes and Dreams", the celebration invites everyone to ring in the hopes, dreams and aspirations for the new year with activities including light projections, a concert, food truck festival, and bazaar.

Taking this year's festivities to new heights is the inaugural Star Island Singapore Countdown Edition – an outdoor extravaganza at The Float @ Marina Bay fusing magnificent fireworks with cutting-edge technology and 3D surround sound, impressive performances and amazing light shows.

"We are delighted that so many partners have come together to bring such an exciting line-up of activities to Marina Bay this year-end, turning the district into a vibrant activity hub for people from all walks of life," said Mr Lim Eng Hwee, Chief Executive Officer, URA. "Marina Bay was envisioned to be a vibrant live-work-play district and a key focal point for celebrations. Over the years it has truly shaped up to become a ‘People's Bay', where many events and activities are held for the local community as well as overseas visitors to experience and enjoy the Bay. Through , we encourage everyone to explore the different places in Marina Bay and enjoy the variety of events and happenings it has to offer this festive season. There will be something for everyone here at Marina Bay."

More information on the events can be found in [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Nov/pr18-65a.pdf)  or online at [www.marinabaycountdown.sg](http://www.marinabaycountdown.sg)

For a map of the events and their locations, refer to [Annex B](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Nov/pr18-65b.pdf) .