## Fitness, nostalgia and fun galore at March Car-Free Sunday SG
---
title: Fitness, nostalgia and fun galore at March Car-Free Sunday SG

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr18-16

date: 22 March 2018

---

-------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 22 March 2018

Participants have much to look forward to at the March edition of Car-Free Sunday SG as community and corporate partners introduce new activities and bring back the crowd-favourites. This Sunday, participants can enjoy a wide variety of activities, such as sports, health, heritage and family-friendly fun. There will be something for all ages and interests!  
  
**Fun and fitness at Civic District**  
  
Over at the Esplanade Park, one can watch and learn from experienced circus performers from the interest group, Bornfire Community Circus, on how to perform juggling and other fun tricks.  
  
The public can also discover how everyday materials can be repurposed into drumming instruments. They can take part in making music together as a community.  
  
For the health-conscious, venture into Connaught Drive for complimentary basic health screening, as well as to learn to operate AED machines from the Singapore Heart Foundation's volunteers. The public can also enjoy shoulder massages offered by the Singapore Association of the Visually Handicapped mobile massage team for a nominal fee that supports the masseurs for their livelihood.  
  
Besides enjoying these activities, participants can also learn more about safe riding, and commuting by bicycle to and from work.  
  
To promote active mobility and gracious sharing of road space, the Land Transport Authority rolled out the Safe Riding Programme (SRP) on 1 February 2018, and will be bringing the full programme to Car-Free Sunday SG for the first time.  
  
Cyclists and Personal Mobility Device (PMD) users can learn safe riding practices, as well as the rules and code of conduct under the new Active Mobility Act. The SRP integrates theory and practice in a training circuit, with a hands-on session allowing participants to practise navigating safely in various situations.  
  
Cycling is not just a fun and healthy recreational activity, but also a viable alternate mode of commute to and from work. Experienced bike commuters from the LoveCycling SG cycling group will be sharing tips and advice for those keen to learn more about bike commuting to work. Those who are interested can bring along their bikes and gears for the sharing, which will take place at Connaught Drive.  
**  
Get nostalgic at Telok Ayer Conservation Area**  
  
Over at the Telok Ayer Conservation Area, nostalgia lovers will be in for a treat. They will get to enjoy golden oldies from the 50s and 60s, ancient folk songs, and traditional Chinese opera performance by TAS Theatre, a non-profit performing arts company, at the pavilion of Chong Wen Ge. Participants can also join in the group sing-along session. Ms Jojo Goh Siew Geok, Artistic Director, TAS Theatre said, "We feel that this is a good opportunity for us to bring this heritage culture to a wider target audience and at the same time, add a different element to the Car-Free Sunday SG activities. We hope more will learn to appreciate traditional Chinese opera through this platform."  
  
**Ride with us at Car-Free Sunday SG**  
  
The crowd-favourite complimentary trishaw rides will be back again for participants to take in the sights of Singapore's iconic landmarks along the car-free route including the Esplanade Theatres, The Fullerton Hotel Singapore and the city skyline on the three-wheelers. Volunteers from Cycling Without Age and cycling groups will be pedalling the trishaws, but participants can also choose to operate the trishaws themselves. Priority will be given to the less mobile and elderly.  
  
For a detailed listing of all activities lined up this Sunday, please refer to [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Mar/pr18-16a.pdf)  for cycling access points to the Padang.  
  
**Friends of Car-Free Sunday SG Network**  
  
The Friends of Car-Free Sunday SG Network, comprising community and corporate partners, was formed to acknowledge their contributions to Car-Free Sunday SG. It is also a platform for more individuals as well as community and corporate groups to join and support the movement to activate the streets and create a vibrant car-lite experience for everyone to enjoy. For more information on how to join the Friends of Car-Free Sunday SG Network, please visit [http://ura.sg/carfreesundaysg](http://ura.sg/carfreesundaysg)  
  
Car-Free Sunday SG is a community initiative by the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), Land Transport Authority (LTA), National Parks Board (NParks), National Arts Council (NAC), Health Promotion Board (HPB), Sport Singapore (SportSG) and Singapore Land Authority (SLA), supported by a host of community and interest groups to promote the car-lite message and enliven the streets.  
  
Get updates on Car-Free Sunday SG activities and details at [https://www.facebook.com/carfreesundaysg/](https://www.facebook.com/carfreesundaysg/). If you are a participant at the event, do share your photos with us. Find out more [here](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Get-Involved/Go-Car-Lite/Car-Free-Sunday/CFS/About-CFS).

   
  
#CarFreeSundaySG