## Marina Bay Singapore Countdown 2019 invites all to ring in the New Year with hopes and dreams
---
title: Marina Bay Singapore Countdown 2019 invites all to ring in the New Year with hopes and dreams

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr18-71

date: 05 December 2018

---

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Singapore's largest countdown event celebrates with a bevy of multi-sensory activities and experiences for all

  Published: 05 December 2018

Marina Bay and the Civic District will once again be transformed into Singapore's largest countdown celebration venue come this New Year's Eve, as people from all walks of life get to ring in 2019 with a variety of exciting events taking place in the heart of our city from early evening till past midnight.

Members of the public can look forward to a whole host of activities across various partner event hubs around Marina Bay and Civic District. There will be light projection shows on key landmarks around the bay; Mediacorp's **Let's Celebrate 2019** countdown concert at The Promontory, made free for the public for the first time; the **Food Truck Fest** at the Marina Bay Sands Event Plaza, offering modern local gastronomical delights; **Esplanade Presents Come Together** outdoor performances by local acts at the Esplanade Outdoor Theatre and the **Prudential Marina Bay Carnival** at the Bayfront Event Space. There will also be the **Car-Free New Year's Eve (Car-Free NYE)** at the Civic District, where the roads around the Padang will be closed to vehicular traffic for activities such as movie screenings, live performances, bazaars, salsa dancing and more. Enter the New Year with an awe-inspiring fireworks display set against the iconic Singapore's city skyline with **STAR ISLAND Singapore Countdown Edition**.

**Help others build their dreams this festive season**

Continuing with the theme "Bay of Hopes and Dreams" and in partnership with the National Volunteer & Philanthropy Centre, **_Marina Bay Singapore Countdown 2019_** presents the  initiative, a collective effort to support the less fortunate in fulfilling their dreams and personal development. As part of the initiative, artworks created by students and beneficiaries of local schools and welfare organisations will be transformed into a series of dazzling light projections on the facades of key landmarks around Marina Bay. These whimsical artworks portray the world seen through the eyes of these youths, as well as their aspirations for the future.

From 26 December to 31 December 2018, the façade of The Fullerton Hotel Singapore will be illuminated nightly with artworks by beneficiaries of the Metta Welfare Association (Metta) and the Association for Persons with Special Needs (APSN). From 29 December to 31 December 2018, the public can catch light projections adapted from artworks by beneficiaries from the AWWA and the Cerebral Palsy Alliance Singapore (CPAS) on ArtScience Museum, as well as artworks by students from the Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts (NAFA) on the Merlion.  
   
Mr Lim Eng Hwee, Chief Executive Officer of the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) said, "The Marina Bay Singapore Countdown has been a signature countdown event that draws both locals and overseas visitors, as it offers a unique cityscape and vibrant atmosphere for everyone to enjoy the New Year's Eve. As we come together to celebrate the New Year and enjoy the activities that have been lined up, we hope that the public will also be inspired to play a part in helping the less privileged through the  initiative."

Members of the public who wish to help the talented youths from these schools and welfare organisations fulfil their dreams and aspirations can do so via [www.marinabaycountdown.sg/build-a-dream](http://www.marinabaycountdown.sg/build-a-dream).

**Experience the buzz around Marina Bay**

Marina Bay will be bustling with activities on New Year's Eve that will excite the senses. On 31 December, The Float @ Marina Bay will host the **STAR ISLAND Singapore Countdown Edition** in conjunction with **_Marina Bay Singapore Countdown 2019_**, marking the international debut of this landmark Japanese production by the Japanese entertainment group Avex.

For the first time, a series of breath-taking fireworks will light up the bay for a full hour leading to midnight. This multi-sensory fireworks musical will take the fireworks display to the next level. The audience will be wowed with a combination of the dazzling fireworks and pyrotechnics, lights, 3D surround sound and performance acts by Taiko drummers, dancers, fire performers and more. There will also be fringe activities including a F&B marketplace, roving performances and family-friendly activities. For ticketing details, visit [https://www.marinabaycountdown.gov.sg/programmes/star-island-singapore/](https://www.marinabaycountdown.gov.sg/programmes/star-island-singapore/).  
   
At the stroke of midnight, the spectacular fireworks that can be viewed from around the bay will bloom against the backdrop of Singapore's city skyline, lighting up the whole of Marina Bay and marking the grand finale to the celebrations.

Over at The Promontory, Mediacorp's **Let's Celebrate 2019** countdown show will be hosted by Chua En Lai and Sonia Chew, featuring top Mediacorp artistes and acclaimed local acts as they usher in the New Year

Visitors will get to enjoy live performances by Taufik Batisah, Gentle Bones, Joanna Dong, Sufi Rashid, Shabir, as well as the newly-crowned  winner Jarrell Ng and the top three finalists. On top of that, artistes Joel Choo, Pierre Png, Sheila Sim, Romeo Tan, Carrie Wong will collaborate with Singapore's top fashion models and Aisyah Aziz to showcase works done by local designers. Entry is free and starts from 7pm.

At the Marina Bay Sands Event Plaza, riding on Singaporeans' renowned foodie culture, **Food Truck Fest** will feature a delicious line-up of modern local food, with a gathering of food trucks, caravans and kombi vans. **Food Truck Fest** celebrates local culinary craftsmanship by showcasing local food and beverage talents. Visitors can expect to experience an array of Singapore's favourite dishes all in one location, such as the humble, kampong-style New Ubin Seafood, and the newly-awarded Michelin Bib Gourmand, Fishball Story.

Returning to the Bayfront Event Space for the second year is the **Prudential Marina Bay Carnival**. This year's edition will be bigger than ever, featuring 50 rides and games from Europe and around the globe. The Carnival will also be introducing new rides and games, an array of festive programmes, innovative promotions such as monthly themed dress contests, and new elements such as food challenges and a dance competition, to keep visitors engaged.

Groove into the New Year at the Esplanade Outdoor Theatre with **Esplanade Presents Come Together** that will feature six different performances with acts by Nick Zavior, Amni Musfirah, Bloco Singapura and NovoBloco. Timothy Nga hosts this stellar line-up of musical talent that will serenade listeners into 2019.

**Enjoy a car-free Civic District**

The adjacent Civic District will be turned into a car-free activity hub where public can participate in various complimentary activities such as a pop-up craft market that promotes sustainability at The Incubator at Esplanade Park, movie screenings and live band performances at Empress Lawn, salsa dancing at the Asian Civilisations Museum and a bazaar along Connaught Drive. There will also be fitness workouts and activities by the Health Promotion Board along St Andrew's Road and The Cenotaph as well as family-friendly activities by the Families for Life spread across Angsana Lawn and Empress Lawn. In addition, there will be ticketed programmes that the public can enjoy, such as an exhibition on Minimalism in Southeast Asia at the National Gallery Singapore and a concert by The Philharmonic Orchestra (Singapore) at the Victoria Theatre and Concert Hall.

St Andrew's Road, part of Fullerton Road, the stretch of Connaught Drive between Esplanade Park and The Padang will be closed to traffic from 4pm on 31 December 2018 until 5am the next morning.

Please refer to [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Dec/pr18-71a.pdf)  for the location map. For more information, visit [https://www.marinabaycountdown.gov.sg/](https://www.marinabaycountdown.gov.sg/).

**_Marina Bay Singapore Countdown 2019_** is presented by the URA and supported by the Singapore Tourism Board. Organised in collaboration with various agencies and event partners, **_Marina Bay Singapore Countdown_** is Singapore's signature event to usher in the New Year. It is part of a calendar of exciting events that adds to Singapore's distinctiveness as a vibrant city and leisure destination.