## Celebrate the start of school holidays at Car-Free Sunday SG!
---
title: Celebrate the start of school holidays at Car-Free Sunday SG!

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr18-31

date: 21 May 2018

---

-------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 21 May 2018

Participants can look forward to having family fun at the upcoming edition of Car-Free Sunday SG on 27 May, the first Sunday of the school holidays, when the Civic District and Telok Ayer Conservation Area will once again be transformed into a people-friendly and car-free environment.

**Revel in a day of family fun at Civic District**

The annual Families for Life Celebrations is back in this May edition of Car-Free Sunday SG. Thousands of families will enjoy family time at the Civic District with a wide myriad of family-friendly activities such as the  where families bring their own wheels including bicycles, rollerblades, skates, scooters, strollers/prams, wheelchairs, or personal mobility devices, for a wheeling fun time on the closed roads within the Civic District.

At the heart of Civic District, Families for Life Council will be transforming the Padang into a  will be offering complimentary snacks and beverages on a first-come first-served basis, while stocks last.

Families can also immerse in the arts and culture at the museums for a fun morning of specially-curated activities, or take part in walking tours around the Civic District.

Minister for National Development Lawrence Wong will be flagging off the Car-Free Sunday SG at 8am, together with the Friends of Car-Free Sunday SG Network, for participants to walk, cycle and jog around the 5.5km of closed roads in the Civic District, Central Business District and Telok Ayer Conservation Area. Senior Parliamentary Secretary for Social and Family Development Associate Professor Muhammad Faishal Ibrahim will also be joining families that morning to flag off the 

**Get Instagram-worthy shots at "_Walk the Chalk_" in Telok Ayer**

There are also fun activities awaiting the families and their children over at Telok Ayer Conservation Area. Unleash your creativity and let your imagination do the drawing! Try your hand at doodling on the car-free roads using chalk at Telok Ayer Street (between Boon Tat Street and Cross Street). The young and young at heart can participate in this " canvass along the car-free street to enliven the area.

On the motivation behind the "_Walk the Chalk_" initiative, Diana Ainee, one of the SIT students shared, "Playing with the idiom ‘Walk the Talk', we wanted to be involved in a project that not only talks about the environment but actually do something about it, and Car-Free Sunday SG is a great opportunity to do that! The convenience of a car comes at the expense of the environment as it contributes to increasing carbon emission. By going car-lite, we will have more space to do fun things! "_Walk the Chalk"_ is an opportunity for us to doodle on a car-free road, and through this, we can see and experience how vibrant and lively the city will be with fewer cars."

Another instagrammable spot will be at the Chinatown Heritage Centre photo booth at Telok Ayer Square. Other than learning more about the heritage of Chinatown, participants can capture themselves with heritage installations such as olden day street hawker stalls where roving hawkers peddled their wares, or the Five-foot way Library where one can flip through comics of the past. They can also purchase the picture story book "_Go Trishaw Go_" that will be on sale.

**Ride with us at Car-Free Sunday SG**

The crowd-favourite complimentary trishaw rides will be back again for participants to take in the sights of Singapore's iconic landmarks along the car-free route including the Esplanade Theatres, The Fullerton Hotel Singapore and the city skyline on the three-wheelers. Volunteers from Cycling Without Age and cycling groups will be pedalling the trishaws, but participants can also choose to operate the trishaws themselves. Priority will be given to the less mobile and elderly.

For a detailed listing of all activities lined up for this Sunday, please refer to [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/May/pr18-31a.pdf)  for cycling access points to the Padang.

**Friends of Car-Free Sunday SG Network**

The Friends of Car-Free Sunday SG Network, comprising community and corporate partners, was formed to acknowledge their contributions to Car-Free Sunday SG. It is also a platform for more individuals as well as community and corporate groups to join and support the movement to activate the streets and create a vibrant car-lite experience for everyone to enjoy. For more information on how to join the Friends of Car-Free Sunday SG Network, please visit [http://ura.sg/carfreesundaysg](http://ura.sg/carfreesundaysg).

Car-Free Sunday SG is a community initiative by the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), Land Transport Authority (LTA), National Parks Board (NParks), National Arts Council (NAC), Health Promotion Board (HPB), Sport Singapore (SportSG) and Singapore Land Authority (SLA), supported by a host of community and interest groups to promote the car-lite message and enliven the streets.

Get updates on Car-Free Sunday SG activities and details at [https://www.facebook.com/carfreesundaysg/](https://www.facebook.com/carfreesundaysg/). If you are a participant at the event, do share your photos with us. Find out more [here](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Get-Involved/Go-Car-Lite/Car-Free-Sunday/CFS/About-CFS).

#CarFreeSundaySG