## Stiffer fines to deter parking offences from 1 July 2019
---
title: Stiffer fines to deter parking offences from 1 July 2019

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr19-26

date: 24 June 2019

---

--------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 24 June 2019

To ensure parking fines remain an effective deterrent, the Housing & Development Board (HDB) and Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) will be imposing stiffer fines for parking offences from 1 July 2019. The fine revision will only affect errant motorists, and will not impact those who abide by parking rules.

The last revision of parking fines by HDB and URA was carried out in 1991. Following a review of existing parking fines, the fines for the following categories of parking offences will be increased.

**Illegal Parking Offences**

All motorists are required to observe the parking regulations and park their vehicles in designated lots. Vehicles that are parked indiscriminately may endanger the safety of others, besides causing obstruction and inconvenience to other users.

From 2016 to 2018, an average of about 260,800 notices were issued each year for illegal parking. These include cases where the motorists had parked their cars in motorcycle or heavy vehicle parking lots, as well as non-season ticket holders who had parked their vehicles at season parking lots.

Currently, the fines for illegal parking are $25, $50 and $80 respectively for motorcycles, cars and heavy vehicles. To further deter illegal parking, these will be increased to $35, $70 and $100 respectively.

**Coupon and Digital Parking Offences**

Motorists are expected to pay the correct parking charges when using HDB and URA car parks. For car parks where the Electronic Parking System (EPS) has not been implemented, motorists can either use parking coupons, the Parking.sg app or the OneService App to pay their parking charges.

From 2016 to 2018, an average of about 573,000 notices were issued each year to motorists who either did not pay the parking charges or had paid an insufficient amount at coupon parking car parks.

For more effective deterrence, the fine quantum will be revised for the following categories:

**a. Parking without valid coupon(s) and no digital parking session**  
Currently, cars and heavy vehicles that are found parking without a valid parking coupon or without activating a digital parking session face a fine of $30 and $40 respectively. Motorcycles face a fine of $8.

The fines will be increased to $40 and $50 respectively for cars and heavy vehicles. There will be no change in the fine quantum for motorcycles.

**b. Over-parking**  
The current fines for vehicles that are found to have exceeded their paid parking sessions range from $6 to $20 for cars, and $12 to $40 for heavy vehicles. Motorcycles face a fine of $4.

Errant motorists will now face higher fines, ranging from $8 to $24 for cars, and $16 to $48 for heavy vehicles. There will be no change in the fine quantum for motorcycles.

**Payment Evasion Offences at EPS Car Parks**

It is an offence for motorists to evade payment of parking charges by tailgating other vehicles or bypassing car park gantries at EPS car parks. HDB and URA have issued about 4,400 notices every year to motorists for evasion of parking charges. Motorcycles, cars and heavy vehicles currently face a fine of $25, $50 and $80 respectively.

To further deter errant motorists, the fines will be increased to $35, $70 and $100 for motorcycles, cars and heavy vehicles respectively.

Please see [Annex](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2019/Jun/pr19-26a.pdf)  for details of the revised parking fines.

HDB and URA urge all motorists to be considerate and abide by the parking rules. Members of the public can report parking offences through a common hotline at 1800 338 6622.

**Issued by Housing & Development Board and Urban Redevelopment Authority**