## Award of Tender for URA Sites at Tan Quee Lan Street, Bernam Street and one-north Gateway
---
title: Award of Tender for URA Sites at Tan Quee Lan Street, Bernam Street and one-north Gateway

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr19-40

date: 12 September 2019

---


                                    Published: 12 September 2019

    The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) has awarded the tenders for the sites at Tan Quee Lan Street, Bernam Street and one-north Gateway to the three entities, namely GLL D Pte. Ltd., Intrepid Investments Pte. Ltd. & Hong Realty (Private) Limited; HY Realty Pte. Ltd.; and TID Residential Pte. Ltd. respectively.
The companies submitted the highest bids in the tenders for the three sites.
The sites at Tan Quee Lan Street, Bernam Street and one-north Gateway were launched for tender on 29 March 2019, 30 May 2019 and 27 June 2019 respectively. The tenders for these sites closed on 5 September 2019. The land parcels were offered for sale on 99-year lease terms.
Details of the awarded land parcels and the successful tenderers are provided below:

            LOCATION

            ALLOWABLE DEVELOPMENT

            SITE AREA

            MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE GROSS FLOOR AREA (GFA)

            SUCCESSFUL TENDERER

            TENDERED PRICE
            ($PSM of GFA)

            Tan Quee Lan Street

            Residential with Commercial at 1st Storey

            11,530.8 m2

            48,430 m2

            GLL D Pte. Ltd., Intrepid Investments Pte. Ltd. and Hong Realty (Private) Limited

            $800,190,000
            ($16,522.61)

            Bernam Street

            3,846.2 m2

            28,001 m2

            HY Realty Pte. Ltd.

            $440,900,000
            ($15,745.87)

            one-north Gateway

            5,778.7 m2

            14,447 m2

            TID Residential Pte. Ltd.

            $155,738,074
            ($10,779.96)