## URA releases two sale sites at Kampong Bugis and River Valley Road
---
title: URA releases two sale sites at Kampong Bugis and River Valley Road

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr19-55

date: 05 December 2019

---

------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 05 December 2019

The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) has released one White site at Kampong Bugis and one hotel site at River Valley Road for sale under the Reserve List of the second half 2019 Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme.

The White site at Kampong Bugis is to be developed in phases and will potentially yield 4,000 dwelling units and 50,000 m2 of gross floor area for complementary uses such as retail, serviced apartments, offices, community uses such as eldercare or senior activity centre as well as sports and recreational facilities. The entire precinct is estimated to be completed over 11 to 13 years. The hotel site at River Valley Road can potentially yield 530 hotel rooms. Details of the land parcels can be found in [Annex 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2019/Dec/pr19-55a\(2\).pdf) .

White site at Kampong Bugis

The 8.2 ha White site at Kampong Bugis is strategically located at the mouth of Kallang River with 1.1 km of water frontage and is in close proximity to the city and three MRT stations (Kallang, Lavender and Bendemeer). Envisioned to be an attractive waterfront residential precinct that is car-lite, community-centric and sustainable, the Kampong Bugis site will be released for sale to a Master Developer. The existing public park fronting the waterfront will be enhanced with new public spaces to better serve the public.

The intention is for the Master Developer to comprehensively master plan the precinct, develop the site in phases and implement district-wide car-lite initiatives and sustainable urban solutions such as pneumatic waste conveyance system, to create greener and more sustainable developments. URA has drawn up an option scheme, which is a flexible payment scheme, and phased-development approach that allows the developer to phase the development of the site in tandem with market demand with lower upfront costs and risks.

Details of the option scheme can be found in [Annex 3](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2019/Dec/pr19-55c.pdf) .

Hotel site at River Valley Road

The historic urban waterfront along Singapore River is a vibrant, lifestyle destination offering a good mix of hotel, commercial, entertainment and residential uses, housed in a charming mix of old shophouses and new developments.

The 1.02 ha site is located above the Fort Canning MRT station, and uniquely sited between the historic Fort Canning Park and Singapore River, offering vantage views towards both greenery and water. The site is envisioned to be developed into a well-designed distinctive waterfront landmark, offering seamless connections and delightful hill-to-water visitor experiences between Fort Canning Park and Singapore River.

**Concept and Price Revenue Tender Approach**

The Concept and Price Revenue Tender approach will be adopted for the sale of the White site at Kampong Bugis and the hotel site at River Valley Road to ensure that the selected concept proposals are aligned with the visions for the two sites. Under the Concept and Price Revenue Tender approach, tenderers are required to submit their concept proposals and tender prices separately. The concept proposals will firstly be evaluated against a set of criteria specified in the tender (see [Annex 4](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2019/Dec/pr19-55d.pdf)  on evaluation criteria for the two sites). Only compelling concept proposals will be shortlisted to proceed to the second stage of evaluation, which will be based on price only. Tenderers are encouraged to propose quality concepts that are closely aligned with our planning vision for the sites, while submitting a competitively priced bid.

For the two sites at Kampong Bugis and River Valley Road, URA will introduce a modification to the existing Concept and Price Revenue Tender approach in evaluating the tenders received. Specifically, a tenderer with an outstanding concept proposal identified at the first Concept Evaluation stage will be offered the option to top up its bid price to match the highest bid price amongst all the shortlisted concept proposals in the second Price stage, in the event that the tenderer is not the highest bidder1. This is to strongly incentivise tenderers to draw up exceptional concept proposals, as they would have a greater chance of securing the tender while achieving the best possible development outcomes for these two sites.

The top-up option will, however, be offered very selectively, limited to one or two proposals2 that are considered exceptionally outstanding amongst all shortlisted concept proposals in the first Concept Evaluation stage. In the situation where there is no such outstanding proposal identified, the award will be given to the highest bidder.

**Other Details**

More details on the land parcels are available on the URA website:

Kampong Bugis and River Valley Road  
([https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Land-Sales/Sites-For-Application](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Land-Sales/Sites-For-Application))

eDeveloper's Packets containing details and conditions of tender for the two sites are available for sale at [www.ura.gov.sg/edp](http://www.ura.gov.sg/edp).



1If the offer to top up is not taken up by the tenderer with the outstanding concept proposal, the tender will be awarded to the highest bidder.

2Where there is more than one outstanding concept proposal identified, URA may first offer the top-up option to the tenderer of the outstanding concept proposal with the highest ranking. If the tenderer who has been offered the top-up option declines to accept the offer, URA may offer the top-up option to the tenderer of the outstanding concept proposal with the next highest ranking.