## Extended Grace Period for Short-term Parking in Car Parks with Electronic Parking System until 31 May 2020
---
title: Extended Grace Period for Short-term Parking in Car Parks with Electronic Parking System until 31 May 2020

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr20-16

date: 17 April 2020

---

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Updated (28 May 2020): The extended grace period for short-term parking at HDB and URA EPS car parks will be in effect until the end of "Safe Re-opening" phase, i.e. Phase One of the post-circuit breaker period.

  Published: 17 April 2020

The Housing & Development Board (HDB) and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) will extend the grace period for short-term parking in all HDB and URA car parks with the Electronic Parking System (EPS) with immediate effect until 31 May 2020.

Currently, motorists are given a grace period of 10 minutes at HDB and URA's EPS car parks. Motorists who exit the car parks within the grace period will not be charged parking fees.

With the implementation of an elevated set of safe distancing measures to minimise the further spread of COVID-19 on 7 April 2020, more Singapore residents have turned to online services for food, groceries, and other essential goods as they stay at home. Consequently, demand for delivery services has increased.

To facilitate the increased volume of deliveries, HDB and URA will extend the grace period at EPS car parks from the current 10 minutes to 20 minutes. This will give sufficient time for motorists, especially those providing delivery services, to park their vehicles and deliver their goods. Motorists who park their vehicles beyond the grace period will continue to pay parking fees for the full duration, including the first 20 minutes, when they exit the car parks.

The extended grace period will be in place until 31 May 2020, to cater to the demand for delivery services, while allowing sufficient time for transition as demand for deliveries gradually eases.

We seek motorists' cooperation to carry out their activities speedily and not to linger at any location longer than necessary, in view of the safe distancing measures.



**Issued by: Housing & Development Board and Urban Redevelopment Authority**