## Release of First Half 2021 Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme
---
title: Release of First Half 2021 Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr20-36

date: 03 December 2020

---

----------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 03 December 2020

The Government today announced the Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme for the first half of 2021 (1H2021), which comprises four Confirmed List sites and nine Reserve List sites. These sites can yield about 7,045 private residential units, 101,200 sqm gross floor area (GFA) of commercial space and 1,070 hotel rooms (see [Appendix 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2020/Dec/pr20-36a.pdf) ).

The land supply from the 1H2021 GLS Programme has been carefully calibrated to take into account the COVID-19 and macroeconomic situation. Given the continued uncertainties in economic and labour market conditions, the Government has decided to maintain a moderate supply of private residential units on the Confirmed List and will not introduce any new sites for predominantly commercial or hotel use in the 1H2021 GLS Programme. Nonetheless, there is a good selection of sites with additional supply in the Reserve List that developers can initiate for development if they assess that there is demand.

The Confirmed List comprises four private residential sites \[including one Executive Condominium (EC) site\] which can yield about 1,605 private residential units (including 590 EC units) and 9,200 sqm GFA of commercial space.

The Reserve List comprises five private residential sites (including one EC site), three White sites and one hotel site. These sites can yield about 5,440 private residential units (including 700 EC units), 92,000 sqm GFA of commercial space and 1,070 hotel rooms.

The Government will continue to monitor economic and property market conditions closely and adjust the supply of future GLS Programmes, as necessary.

**Supply of Private Housing**

The private housing supply in the 1H2021 GLS Programme, together with the supply of units already in the pipeline, will sufficiently cater to the housing needs of the population when completed in about four to five years' time. The supply on the Reserve List also gives developers a good selection of sites to initiate for development.

**Supply of Commercial Space**

The White site at Woodlands Avenue 2 for a mixed-use development will be carried over from the 2H2020 Reserve List to the 1H2021 Reserve List. This site will provide opportunity for developers to initiate the development of more office and retail space if there is demand.

**Supply of Hotel Rooms**

The 1H2021 Reserve List includes two sites at Marina View and River Valley Road, which are carried over from the 2H2020 Reserve List. These sites will provide opportunities for developers to initiate additional supply of hotel rooms if there is demand.