## Connaught Drive and Anderson Bridge to be fully pedestrianised to further enhance walkability of Civic District
---
title: Connaught Drive and Anderson Bridge to be fully pedestrianised to further enhance walkability of Civic District

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr21-47

date: 05 November 2021

---

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

  Published: 05 November 2021

The Land Transport Authority (LTA), in partnership with the National Parks Board (NParks) and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), announced today that works to further enhance the walkability of the Civic District will commence. Since 2015, the agencies have rolled out a series of enhancements to create a green and walkable environment in the Civic District, such as providing more parks and open plazas.   
  
Once works have been completed, Connaught Drive will be fully pedestrianised as an extension of Esplanade Park and the Anderson Bridge. Visitors will be able to enjoy a seamless walking experience amidst lush greenery between Esplanade Park, Empress Place and Padang, and easily access the historical and arts offerings of the area on foot. This will enhance walkability and create a more pedestrian-friendly environment in the Civic District. These plans were first announced at the Ministry of Transport's Committee of Supply debate in March this year.  
  
The start of works follows a series of engagement with various stakeholders over a four-month period since May 2021. The engagements yielded useful suggestions on ways to further improve pedestrian connectivity and wayfinding to further enhance visitors' experience when they explore the Civic District. Agencies will continue to take into consideration stakeholders' feedback in subsequent works to improve placemaking and wayfinding in the precinct.  
  
**Pedestrianisation plans in Civic District**  
  
As part of the upcoming works to enhance walkability in the area, the following changes to traffic arrangements will be implemented from end December 2021 .  
  
Pedestrianisation of Connaught Drive   
  
i. Connaught Drive will be fully pedestrianised and closed to all vehicular traffic. The coach pick-up/drop-off points will be relocated to the nearby roundabout at Fullerton Road/Connaught Drive junction to facilitate visitors' access by coaches.  
  
ii. As a result, bus stop BS 02029 will be relocated to Esplanade Drive from end-December 2021. Bus services 75, 100, 107, 130, 131 and 167 which currently stop at the bus stop will be diverted to ply Esplanade Drive instead.  
  
Pedestrianisation of Anderson Bridge/Fullerton Road  
  
i. Anderson Bridge/Fullerton Road will be fully pedestrianised and closed to all vehicular traffic. There will be reconfiguration works at the junctions of Parliament Place/St Andrew's Road, Fullerton Road/Connaught Drive and Fullerton Road/Esplanade Drive to facilitate the pedestrianisation.   
  
ii. To maintain accessibility within the Civic District after Anderson Bridge/Fullerton Road has been pedestrianised, Parliament Place will reopen to all vehicular traffic from end-December 2021.  
  
After the latest pedestrianisation works have been completed, to further enliven the area, the agencies will also work with stakeholders to plan open spaces to hold various outdoor programmes for visitors, to bring greater vibrancy to the entire area.  According to the Civic District Alliance (CDA)1, "The Civic District Alliance is happy to work with LTA to increase awareness and make the precinct more welcoming to the wider community. These pedestrianisation plans are remarkable first steps to improve navigation and pedestrian connectivity not just within the area but beyond the Civic District in the future."  
  
**MRT stations as part of Civic District's placemaking efforts**  
  
In addition to the efforts to enhance walkability of the Civic District, LTA has worked with the Civic District Alliance, URA and Stellar Lifestyle2 to commence improvements to placemaking and wayfinding in the area by rolling out new signage and information posters at City Hall and Raffles Place MRT stations from today. These are aimed at creating a stronger connection between the underground stations and the precinct aboveground. The signage and posters will be located prominently along walkways leading to the station exits and wall spaces above ticketing machines near the faregates. With these posters, visitors will be able to easily obtain information on nearby iconic places of interest such as the National Gallery Singapore and The Arts House   
  
Mr Ng Lang, Chief Executive at LTA explained, "The Civic District is home to some of our most significant historical monuments and cultural institutions, and the birthplace of modern Singapore. This is an effort by several agencies over several years to restore the beauty of the public spaces here. We hope to offer visitors a green, idyllic and elegant cultural precinct where they can walk in leisure to enjoy a glimpse of the past without having to compete with vehicular traffic."   
  
To enable more Singaporeans to benefit, LTA intends to study public feedback and effectiveness of these placemaking and wayfinding initiatives, and work with stakeholders of other precincts of interest to bring their distinct identities into the MRT stations where possible.   
  
[Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2021/Nov/pr21-47a.pdf) [](/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2021/Nov/pr21-47a.pdf)_\[PDF, 620kb\]_ – Artist Impressions of the Infrastructural Enhancements of the Civic District  
[Annex B](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2021/Nov/pr21-47b.pdf)  – Map of Pedestrianisation of Connaught Drive and Anderson Bridge/Fullerton Road  
[Annex C](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2021/Nov/pr21-47c.pdf)  – Posters at MRT Stations

About Land Transport Authority  
   
The Land Transport Authority (LTA) is a statutory board under the Ministry of Transport, which spearheads land transport developments in Singapore.  As the agency responsible for planning, designing, building and maintaining Singapore's land transport infrastructure and systems, we aim to bring about a greener and more inclusive public transport system, complemented by convenient options to walk and cycle from their homes or to their destinations. We leverage technology to strengthen our rail and bus infrastructure and provide exciting options for future land transport. For more information, please visit the website at [www.lta.gov.sg](http://www.lta.gov.sg/).   
  
About National Parks Board (NParks)  
  
The National Parks Board (NParks) is responsible for enhancing and managing the urban ecosystems of our City in Nature. We are the lead agency for greenery, biodiversity conservation, and wildlife and animal health, welfare and management. We are also working closely with the community to enhance the quality of our living environment.  
  
NParks manages more than 350 parks, 3,347 hectares of nature reserves, the Singapore Botanic Gardens, Pulau Ubin and the Sisters' Islands Marine Park. Adding to this is the extensive network of Nature Ways, and the over 300 km Park Connector Network that links major parks, nature areas and residential estates island-wide. Every year, we run over 3,500 educational and outreach programmes across our various green spaces.  
  
NParks has developed an urban biodiversity conservation model, which aims to conserve representative ecosystems in land-scarce Singapore. NParks also monitors and coordinates measures to enhance the presence of biodiversity in our urban landscape.   
  
NParks is working closely with partners in the landscape, horticulture, veterinary and animal sectors to increase productivity, and provide training for all levels of the workforce. Enhancing competencies of the industry will support Singapore's vision of being a City in Nature.  
  
For more information, visit [www.nparks.gov.sg](http://www.nparks.gov.sg/) and [www.facebook.com/nparksbuzz](http://www.facebook.com/nparksbuzz).  
  
About the Urban Redevelopment Authority  
  
The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) is Singapore's land use planning and conservation agency. Our mission is ‘to make Singapore a great city to live, work and play'. We strive to create an endearing home and a vibrant and sustainable city through long-term planning and innovation, in partnership with the community.   
  
URA's multi-faceted role includes being the main government land sales agent. We attract and channel private capital investments to develop sites that support planning, economic and social objectives. We also partner the community to enliven our public spaces to create a car-lite, people-friendly and liveable city for all to enjoy. In shaping a distinctive city, URA also promotes architecture and urban design excellence. Visit [www.ura.gov.sg](http://www.ura.gov.sg/) for more information.



1 The Civic District Alliance (CDA), formed in November 2020, consists of Asian Civilisations Museum, Esplanade -Theatres on the Bay, National Gallery Singapore, The Arts House and Victoria Theatre & Victoria Concert Hall. The CDA is committed to promoting the arts and creating enriching experiences for visitors to the Civic District. For more information, please visit [https://artshouselimited.sg/civic-district](https://artshouselimited.sg/civic-district)

2 Stellar Lifestyle, the business arm of SMRT Corporation Pte Ltd, with expertise in mall management, outdoor media and engagement platforms, and management of retail and advertising spaces along rail lines operated by SMRT Trains.