## Release of first half of 2022 Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme
---
title: Release of first half of 2022 Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr21-51

date: 16 December 2021

---

-------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 16 December 2021

The Government today announced the Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme for the first half of 2022 (1H2022), which comprises five Confirmed List sites and eight Reserve List sites. These sites can yield about 6,500 private residential units, 90,000 sqm gross floor area (GFA) of commercial space and 530 hotel rooms (see [Appendix 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2021/Dec/pr21-51a.pdf) ).  
  
The Confirmed List comprises five private residential sites \[including one Executive Condominium (EC) site\] which can yield about 2,785 private residential units (including 495 EC units). The Reserve List comprises five private residential sites (including one EC site), two White sites and one hotel site. These Reserve List sites can yield an additional 3,715 private residential units (including 700 EC units), 90,000 sqm GFA of commercial space and 530 hotel rooms.   
  
The Government will continue to monitor economic and property market conditions closely and adjust the supply of future GLS Programmes, as necessary.   
  
**Supply of private housing**  
  
The private housing market has been buoyant, with transaction volumes and prices on the rise over the past year, in spite of the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The inventory of unsold private housing units has also declined. To ensure that there is sufficient supply of private housing to meet demand and ensure market stability, the Government has decided to increase the supply of private housing on the Confirmed List to 2,785 units for the 1H2022 GLS Programme, from 2,000 units for the 2H2021 GLS Programme, and is prepared to step up supply further if demand remains strong. At the same time, the additional supply on the Reserve List will give developers a good selection of sites to initiate for development if they assess that there is demand.  
  
**Supply of commercial space**  
  
The White site at Woodlands Avenue 2 for a mixed-use development will be carried over from the 2H2021 Reserve List to the 1H2022 Reserve List. This site will provide opportunity for developers to initiate the development of more office and retail space if there is demand.   
  
**Supply of hotel rooms**  
  
The 1H2022 Reserve List includes a site at River Valley Road carried over from the 2H2021 Reserve List, which will provide the opportunity for developers to initiate for development of hotel rooms if there is demand.