## Long-Term Plan Review (LTPR) Phase 2: Four pillars of discussion on land use strategies
---
title: Long-Term Plan Review (LTPR) Phase 2: Four pillars of discussion on land use strategies

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr21-41

date: 11 October 2021

---

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

• Inclusive • Adaptable and Resilient • Sustainable • Distinctive and Endearing

  Published: 11 October 2021

The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) announced today the start of Phase 2 of the Long-Term Plan Review (LTPR) public engagement exercise. URA will be reaching out widely to Singaporeans and stakeholders to discuss possible land use strategies to shape our future Singapore. URA invites Singaporeans to give their feedback and participate in the conversations. See [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2021/Oct/pr21-41a.pdf)  for more information on the LTPR and the public engagement exercise.  
  
**LTPR Phase 1 – Envisioning Singapore in the next 50 years and beyond**   
  
Phase 1 of the LTPR public engagement exercise was held from July to September 2021, to understand Singaporeans' hopes, aspirations and concerns for Singapore in the next 50 years and beyond. More than 5,600 people responded to a public poll to share their views, and some 200 people participated in workshops and dialogues to deliberate and discuss the findings from the polls. A summary of key findings from Phase 1 is shown in [Annex B](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2021/Oct/pr21-41b.pdf) .  
  
**LTPR Phase 2 – Four pillars to guide discussions and development of land use strategies**   
  
Based on feedback gathered in Phase 1 as well as the key trends and disruptions that Singapore may face in the future, URA has conceptualised four pillars as outcomes for Singapore's urban environment in the next 50 years and beyond – A Singapore that is (i) Inclusive; (ii) Adaptable and Resilient; (iii) Sustainable; and (iv) Distinctive and Endearing.  
  
Phase 2 of the LTPR public engagement exercise will be conducted from October to December 2021. URA will be engaging different segments of the population – from residents, businesses, professionals, academia to interest groups – to discuss possible land use strategies to address Singaporeans' aspirations and concerns raised in Phase 1, how they could contribute towards the four pillars, as well as the corresponding implications on land use planning and our limited land resources.   
  
**(i) An Inclusive Singapore**  
Our future city should meet the diverse needs of our people. This includes people of different ages, backgrounds, abilities and interests. It is important to ensure that our land use plans and our urban infrastructure provide spaces for everyone, and strengthen social inclusiveness and cohesion.   
  
Discussions on building an  will focus on ways to design our future neighbourhoods with a variety of quality and affordable housing to residents of different demographics, facilitate better distribution of amenities and job opportunities near homes, and improve accessibility and mobility. Possible land use strategies to improve the integration of housing, facilities, mobility networks and public spaces to bring together our diverse society will also be discussed.     
  
**(ii) An Adaptable and Resilient Singapore**  
Economic and technological disruptions, and unforeseen shocks such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have transformed the way we live, work, learn, and play. Our land use plans will thus need to be more adaptable and resilient, to allow us to respond to an increasingly complex and uncertain operating environment, and help us seize future opportunities to ensure that Singapore remains competitive and liveable.   
  
Discussions on building an  will focus on ways to plan and design our future workplaces and homes in light of emerging economic and technological trends, and address the fast-changing needs of businesses. Possible land use strategies to ensure Singapore maintains its economic vibrancy despite future challenges will also be discussed.  
  
**(iii) A Sustainable Singapore**   
Singaporeans agreed that sustainability has been and will remain a key tenet that anchors liveability in the long term, especially in light of climate change. Our land use plans thus need to ensure sustainability while striking a balance between our environmental, economic, and social goals given our limited land resources.   
  
Discussions on building a  will focus on ways to optimise the use of our limited resources and care for the environment, while addressing other competing needs. Possible land use strategies to balance development with nature, close our resource loops, advance our green economy, and support sustainable infrastructure will also be discussed.  
  
**(iv) A Distinctive and Endearing Singapore**  
Singapore's distinctive city skyline, natural and built heritage, vibrant community spaces, and beloved destinations are just some factors that make Singapore unique and endearing to many. Our city centre is also an important economic, cultural, and social node that positions Singapore as a global hub. Our land use plans need to strengthen Singapore's position as a distinctive destination and endearing home to ensure Singapore remains attractive to businesses and tourists while maintaining a strong sense of identity and familiarity amongst residents.  
  
Discussions on building a  will focus on ways to retain and celebrate our built and natural heritage, and enhance our recreational areas and attractions. Possible land use strategies to rejuvenate our city centre and Central Business District as a vibrant destination that provides a good mix of jobs, homes, lifestyle, retail, and arts and cultural offerings will also be discussed.    
  
**Join us to chart our future Singapore together**  
  
URA will be organising six facilitated discussions from October to December 2021, to discuss the areas mentioned above with members of the public. In view of the ongoing COVID-19 situation, all sessions will be held virtually.

<table><tbody><tr><td><strong>Session </strong></td><td><strong> Date/Time </strong></td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top;"> 1.</td><td> Date: 24 October 2021 (Sunday)<br>Time: 9.30am – 1pm </td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top;"> 2.</td><td> Date: 30 October 2021 (Saturday)<br>Time: 9.30am – 1pm</td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top;"> 3.</td><td> Date: 6 November 2021 (Saturday)<br>Time: 1pm – 4.30pm</td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top;"> 4.</td><td> Date: 13 November 2021 (Saturday)<br>Time: 9.30am – 1pm</td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top;"> 5.</td><td> Date: 28 November 2021 (Sunday)<br>Time: 9.30am – 1pm </td></tr><tr><td style="text-align: left; vertical-align: top;"> 6.</td><td> Date: 4 December 2021 (Saturday) <br>Time: 9am – 12.30pm</td></tr></tbody></table>

The public can sign up for any of the above sessions at [https://go.gov.sg/ltpr](https://go.gov.sg/ltpr). Update: These sessions have concluded.  
  
Beyond the facilitated discussions, URA is working with partner agencies to co-organise events such as webinars over the next few months, to share more on key trends and topics related to city planning and Singapore's future development, and to further collect feedback and ideas for the LTPR from Singaporeans and stakeholders.  
  
These events are organised along four themes which are also key areas URA will be looking into as part of the LTPR:  
• Future of the Environment (concluded in September 2021)   
• Future of Living (October 2021)  
• Future of Work (November 2021)  
• Future of Mobility (January 2022)  
  
The public can visit [https://go.gov.sg/ltpr](https://go.gov.sg/ltpr) to find out more and sign up for the events, as well as to share their feedback on the different aspects contributing to the LTPR.  
  
**An invitation to reflect and discuss**  
  
To mark the start of Phase 2 of the LTPR public engagement exercise, URA has produced a short video titled, "**Land Use Planning: A Balancing Act**". With the need to juggle many different land use needs in Singapore, this balancing act is metaphorically expressed as a lyrical dance that makes use of different building blocks, representing our various needs. By working together, the dance progressively creates a beautifully balanced work of art. Through the video, we invite public reflection and discussion on our land use needs and future hopes for our spaces. The video can be viewed at [https://go.gov.sg/ltpr](https://go.gov.sg/ltpr).