## Release of second half of 2022 Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme
---
title: Release of second half of 2022 Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr22-26

date: 07 June 2022

---

--------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 07 June 2022

The Government today announced the Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme for the second half of 2022 (2H2022), which comprises six Confirmed List sites and eight Reserve List sites. These sites can yield about 7,310 private residential units, 94,750 sqm gross floor area (GFA) of commercial space and 530 hotel rooms (see [Appendix 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2022/Jun/pr22-26a.pdf) ).  
  
The Confirmed List comprises five private residential sites \[including one Executive Condominium (EC) site\] and one commercial & residential site, which can yield about 3,505 private residential units (including 495 EC units) and 14,750 sqm GFA of commercial space. The Reserve List comprises six private residential sites (including two EC sites), one White site and one hotel site. These Reserve List sites can yield an additional 3,805 private residential units (including 1,000 EC units), 80,000 sqm GFA of commercial space and 530 hotel rooms.   
  
The Government will continue to monitor economic and property market conditions closely and adjust the supply of future GLS Programmes, as necessary.   
  
**Supply of private housing**   
  
The Government had earlier increased the supply of private housing on the Confirmed List for the 1H2022 GLS Programme to cater to the strong housing demand. With the demand for private housing remaining resilient, the inventory of unsold private housing units has continued to decline in recent months. To ensure sufficient supply of private housing to meet market demand and to maintain market stability, the Government has decided to increase the supply of private housing on the Confirmed List further, to 3,505 units for the 2H2022 GLS Programme, from 2,785 units for the 1H2022 GLS Programme. In addition, the supply on the Reserve List will give developers a good selection of sites to initiate for development if they assess that there is demand.   
  
**First sale site in Marina South**  
  
The 45-ha Marina South precinct is situated next to Gardens by the Bay and overlooks the Marina Reservoir and the Straits of Singapore. It will comprise a mix of retail, office, hotel and residential uses with a potential yield of more than 10,000 dwelling units. URA unveiled the plans for Marina South in the Draft Master Plan 2013.  Since then, the plans have been refined to include more public spaces and a diverse mix of uses and amenities to serve the residential communities.   
  
Marina South is envisioned to be a sustainable and car-lite precinct, characterised by pedestrian-friendly streets, a comprehensive cycling network, a pedestrian mall and an underground pedestrian network that will be connected to the two Thomson-East Coast Line stations at Gardens by the Bay and Marina South. A series of elevated pedestrian connections are also being planned to seamlessly connect the Marina South precinct to Gardens by the Bay and the developments along the waterfront. In addition, sustainable buildings will also be a common feature in Marina South as developments in the area are required to attain BCA's Green Mark Platinum Super Low Energy certification.     
  
Marina South will be positioned as a self-sufficient neighbourhood with amenities such as parks, public space, sports and recreational facilities, shops for personal services and F&B, as well as childcare centres to meet residents' needs. The launch of the first sale site at Marina Gardens Lane in 2H2022 will kickstart the development of the Marina South neighbourhood.  
  
**Supply of commercial space**   
  
The White site at Woodlands Avenue 2 for a mixed-use development will be carried over from the 1H2022 Reserve List to the 2H2022 Reserve List. This site will provide opportunity for developers to initiate the development of more office and retail space if there is demand.   
  
**Supply of hotel rooms**   
  
The 2H2022 Reserve List includes a site at River Valley Road carried over from the 1H2022 Reserve List, which will provide the opportunity for developers to initiate additional supply of hotel rooms if there is demand.