## Youth want a greener environment that uses technology to enable adaptable workplaces and sustainable living
---
title: Youth want a greener environment that uses technology to enable adaptable workplaces and sustainable living

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr22-09

date: 04 February 2022

---

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**_Youth identify top considerations to achieve an inclusive, sustainable, resilient, and endearing physical environment as part of URA's Long-Term Plan Review_**

  Published: 04 February 2022

The National Youth Council (NYC), in partnership with the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), has engaged with over 1,2001 youths in the ongoing Long-Term Plan Review (LTPR)2 for their feedback and ideas on Singapore's physical environment in the next 50 years and beyond, whilst considering Singapore's limited land resources.  
  
The findings captured the top priorities of youth that contribute to each of the four key pillars for Singapore's future living environment – a Singapore that is more i) Inclusive; ii) Sustainable; iii) Adaptable & Resilient; and iv) Distinctive & Endearing. The four pillars were conceptualised based on Singaporeans' feedback gathered in the course of the LTPR public engagement as well as emerging trends and disruptions that Singapore may face in the future:  
  
**Inclusive  
**a) Nature to be incorporated into more housing as well as designs that can meet the varying needs of different family types.  
b) More facilities that cater to the needs of differently-abled.  
c) Improvements to public spaces and mobility networks such as sheltered pathways, wheelchair-friendly public transport and cycling paths.  
   
**Sustainable**  
d) More trees, urban-centred greenery, and nature parks.  
e) Incentivising environmentally friendly practices and public education on the proper ways for recycling.  
f) Using environmentally friendly materials for buildings and improving building designs to promote the flow of natural air rather than air-conditioners.  
  
**Adaptable & Resilient**  
g) Integrating technology into everyday life.  
h) Staying up-to-date with technological trends and being open to innovation.  
i) Involving Singaporeans in planning ahead to create awareness of its importance.  
  
**Distinctive & Endearing**  
j) More conservation of heritage sites and monuments and more historic and museum tours to promote our heritage.  
k) Incorporation of art/culture/nature into the physical environment, e.g. busking and street performances.  
l) Unique green buildings and greenery to promote Singapore as a "garden city".    
  
When presented with trade-off scenarios, and asked to select one of two options they would like to see in the future, youth's preferences leaned towards:  
• MRT stations over cycling paths.   
• Climate-ready measures instead of urban farms.  
• Green spaces rather than built heritage.  
• Inclusive neighbourhoods before having offices close to home.   
• Adaptable workplaces as compared to a CBD where they can live-work-play.  
  
At the final LTPR Youth Conversation on 4th February 2022, youth discussed how the creation of a sustainable and high-quality home that fulfils the needs of all Singaporeans, including youth, would require careful deliberation of how land is used and the trade-offs that would take place. A balance between meeting our development needs and retaining key biodiversity areas and heritage sites, in addition to constant engagement with the public would be important to enhance plans, incorporate aspirations and build an inclusive and caring Singapore.    
  
Since the launch of the LTPR public engagement exercise in July 2021, about 7,000 Singaporeans have shared their aspirations for Singapore, as well as ideas and insights on possible land use strategies for a more inclusive, sustainable, adaptable & resilient; and distinctive & endearing living environment in the next 50 years and beyond.   
  
URA will take in the feedback and ideas gathered from youth with ideas shared at other LTPR engagement sessions. The collected feedback will be distilled and URA will be organising dialogues in 2Q2022 to discuss further with Singaporeans the possible land use strategies and trade-offs in the LTPR. Thereafter, URA will organise a public exhibition to present the feedback from the public engagement exercise and strategies of the LTPR and seek further feedback from Singaporeans.   
  
To continue the conversation among youths on the LTPR, the NYC will also be collaborating with the Institute of Technical Education (ITE) College Central to further the conversation on the LTPR by inviting students to visualise through social media, Singapore's built environment plans under the four pillars. The collaboration with ITE College Central will encourage more youths to participate in civic engagement and have a stake in Singapore's future.      
  
"I encourage youth to keep the conversation alive by contributing your vision of how we can build a caring and cohesive society in our Little Red Dot. Consider long-term possibilities for Singapore, while keeping in mind the various economic, social, and environmental trade-offs. Let's all play a part in building our future Singapore together", said Mr Alvin Tan, Minister of State, Ministry of Culture, Community and Youth & Ministry of Trade and Industry (文化、社区及青年部兼贸工部政务部长陈圣辉).3    
  
To find out more about LTPR, visit [https://go.gov.sg/ltpr](https://go.gov.sg/ltpr).  For more details on youth feedback and ideas raised at LTPR dialogues, visit [https://youthopia.sg/converse](https://youthopia.sg/converse).



1 Youth aged between 16 and 34 years old    
2 The LTPR is URA's latest review of Singapore's long-term land use plans, which guide physical development over the long-term future. Bearing the tagline "Space For Our Dreams", the LTPR comprises a year-long public engagement exercise to involve Singaporeans in reimagining and charting Singapore's future together.   
3 Quote by Mr Alvin Tan, Minister of State, Ministry of Culture, Community and Youth & Ministry of Trade and Industry in Paragraph 8 may be subject to slight changes.