## Release of first half of 2023 Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme
---
title: Release of first half of 2023 Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr22-47

date: 08 December 2022

---

-------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 08 December 2022

The Government today announced the Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme for the first half of 2023 (1H2023), which comprises seven Confirmed List sites and nine Reserve List sites. These sites can yield about 7,715 private residential units, 199,750 sqm gross floor area (GFA) of commercial space and 530 hotel rooms (see [Appendix 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2022/Dec/pr22-47a_1.pdf) ).  
  
The Confirmed List comprises five private residential sites \[including one Executive Condominium (EC) site\] and two White sites, which can collectively yield about 4,090 private residential units (including 700 EC units) and 106,400 sqm GFA of commercial space. The Reserve List comprises six private residential sites (including two EC sites), one commercial site, one White site and one hotel site. These Reserve List sites can yield an additional 3,625 private residential units (including 855 EC units), 93,350 sqm GFA of commercial space and 530 hotel rooms.   
  
The Government will continue to monitor economic and property market conditions closely and adjust the supply of future GLS Programmes as necessary, to help meet demand and promote market stability.   
  
**Supply of private housing**   
  
Over the past two years, the Government has progressively ramped up the supply of private housing on the Confirmed List of the GLS Programme to cater to strong demand from homebuyers. With private housing demand remaining resilient, the Government has decided to increase the supply of private housing on the Confirmed List further, to 4,090 units for the 1H2023 GLS Programme, from 3,505 units for the 2H2022 GLS Programme. The Government will also make available sites on the Reserve List, that can yield an additional 3,625 units for developers to initiate for development if they assess that there is demand.   
  
The increased Confirmed List supply for 1H2023 will add to the existing pipeline supply to meet the housing needs of the population. Specifically, it will bring the total pipeline supply of private housing (including ECs) to about 65,000 units, comprising 55,100 units with planning approval and 9,900 units from GLS sites and awarded en-bloc sites that have not been granted planning approval yet. Of these, about 33,600 units will be completed in the next two years, significantly higher than the 11,500 units completed since 2021. These housing completions will help meet owner-occupier and rental demand in the near term.   
  
**Supply of office space**  
  
To cater to market demand for office space and private housing in the medium term, a White site at Jurong Lake District will be released on the Confirmed List of the 1H2023 GLS Programme. The White site for a mixed-use development at Woodlands Avenue 2 on the 2H2022 Reserve List will be carried over to the 1H2023 Reserve List. In addition, a new short-term lease commercial site in Punggol will be added to the Reserve List. Both sites on the Reserve List will provide opportunity for developers to initiate the development of more office and retail space if they assess that there is demand.  
  
**Master Developer approach for Jurong Lake District site**  
  
Jurong Lake District will be progressively developed into Singapore's largest business district outside the city centre to cater to business needs and support decentralisation. It will be a model sustainability district with a goal to achieve net-zero emissions for new developments around 2045. Today, the area around the Jurong East MRT interchange station comprises spaces for office, retail and institutional uses. By 2028, a new Jurong Region Line station and an Integrated Transport Hub comprising offices, community spaces and retail amenities will be built next to the Jurong East MRT interchange station. The Government will sustain the development momentum at Jurong Lake District, through the release of sites for sale, with the supply carefully paced to take into account economic and market conditions.   
  
To kickstart the next phase of development in Jurong Lake District, the Government will be releasing, via the 1H2023 Confirmed List, a 6.8 hectare White site in the precinct for sale to a Master Developer. This comprises three plots of land linking the Jurong East MRT interchange station and the future Jurong Lake District station of the Cross Island Line. The intention is for a single developer to comprehensively master plan the site and use district-level urban solutions (such as a district cooling system) that will be integrated within the mixed-use development.  
  
With a potential yield of about 150,000 sqm of office space, 1,760 private residential units and 75,000 sqm GFA of complementary uses such as retail, hotel or community uses, the proposed integrated development will be progressively developed over the next 5 to 10 years to cater to market demand. The successful tenderer will be required to build at least 70,000 sqm GFA of office space and 600 private housing units as part of the first phase of the development, but will have some flexibility to phase out the remaining supply according to market demand.   
  
**Short-term lease commercial site at Punggol Walk**  
  
As part of the Government's efforts to support decentralisation and cater to demand for workspaces near homes, the Government will be making available, via the 1H2023 Reserve List, a commercial site in Punggol, with a 30-year lease tenure and a potential yield of about 8,400 sqm of office space. The release of such sites on shorter lease allows our land uses to be refreshed in shorter cycles to support businesses in adapting their operations more nimbly to changing economic trends.   
  
**Supply of hotel rooms**   
  
The 1H2023 Reserve List includes a site at River Valley Road carried over from the 2H2022 Reserve List. This will provide the opportunity for developers to initiate the development of more hotel rooms if there is demand.