## URA launches tender for a Master Developer site at Jurong Lake District to propel the development of Singapore's largest business district outside the CBD
---
title: URA launches tender for a Master Developer site at Jurong Lake District to propel the development of Singapore's largest business district outside the CBD

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr23-19

date: 22 June 2023

---

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 22 June 2023

The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) has launched a Master Developer site at Jurong Lake District (JLD) for sale by public tender today under the Confirmed List of the first half 2023 (1H2023) Government Land Sales (GLS) Programme.  
  
**Jurong Lake District**   
  
As part of URA's decentralisation strategy, JLD will be progressively developed into Singapore's largest business district outside the city centre to cater to varied business needs. JLD is envisioned to be a model sustainability district with a goal to achieve net-zero emissions for new developments around 2045. It will have distinctive mixed-use developments with well-curated public spaces and amenities to serve the needs of the business and local communities as well as the general public.   
  
Today, the area around the Jurong East MRT interchange station comprises office, retail and institutional uses. By 2028, a new Jurong Region Line station and an Integrated Transport Hub comprising offices, community spaces and retail amenities will be built next to Jurong East MRT interchange station. The Government will sustain the development momentum at JLD, through the release of sites for sale, with the supply carefully paced to take into account economic and market conditions. The commercial hub will be extended progressively and seamlessly southwards into a new 120-hectare precinct via elevated pedestrian linkages and lushly planted streets. With more flexibility in zoning, the expanded JLD allows companies to experiment with new development concepts and innovative ways to integrate live, work and play in a green and car-lite precinct.  
  
**Master Developer site to propel development of future business district**  
  
The Government is releasing the 6.5-hectare White site in the new precinct for sale to a Master Developer to kickstart the next phase of development in JLD, and to cater to demand for office, private residential and complementary spaces in the medium term. (Details of the land parcel can be found in [Annex 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2023/Jun/URA-pr23-19a_v4.pdf) ).

This White site comprises three plots of land linking the existing commercial centre at Jurong East MRT interchange station to the new precinct and the future Jurong Lake District station of the Cross Island Line. With a potential yield of at least 146,000 sqm of office space, about 1,700 dwelling units and 73,000 sqm of gross floor area for complementary uses such as shop, restaurants, entertainment, hotel, community uses or more offices, the proposed integrated development will be progressively completed over the next 10 to 15 years  and provide the critical mass to propel the development of this future business district. The successful tenderer will be required to build at least 70,000 sqm GFA of office space and 600 private housing units as part of the first phase of the development, but will have flexibility to phase out the remaining supply according to market demand, via an option scheme drawn up by URA. (Details of option scheme can be found in [Annex 3](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2023/Jun/URA-pr23-19c.pdf) ).   
  
The intention is for the Master Developer to comprehensively master plan the entire site to integrate the various uses, coordinate implementation of the development and adopt district-level urban solutions such as a district cooling system and district pneumatic waste conveyancing system. These systems allow for more efficient delivery of urban services, in the supply of chilled water and managing waste disposal at a district level and help in the realisation of larger sustainability objectives for JLD.    
  
The Concept and Price Revenue Tender approach will be adopted to evaluate the tender submissions for the site to ensure that the selected concept proposal is aligned with the vision for the JLD. Tenderers are required to submit their concept proposals and tender prices separately. The concept proposals will first be evaluated against a set of criteria specified in the tender (see [Annex 4](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2023/Jun/URA-pr23-19d.pdf)  on evaluation criteria). The intention is to shortlist concept proposals that feature a distinctive, highly sustainable mixed-use development with well-designed people-friendly public spaces and amenities to serve the needs of the business and local communities. Only compelling concept proposals will be shortlisted to proceed to the second stage of evaluation, which will be based on price only1.  
  
**Other Details**  
  
The tender for the JLD Master Developer site will close at 12 noon on 26 March 2024.   
  
More details on the land parcel are available on the URA website at [https://www.ura.gov.sg/sitesfortender](https://www.ura.gov.sg/sitesfortender).  
  
eDeveloper's Packets containing details and conditions of tender for the site are available for sale at [https://digitalservice.ura.gov.sg/one-stop-developer-portal](https://digitalservice.ura.gov.sg/one-stop-developer-portal).



1 To further ensure that the site can be awarded to a developer with an exceptional concept that supports the vision and transformation of the district, the tenderer with the most outstanding concept identified at the first Concept Evaluation stage will be offered the option to match the highest bid price amongst the shortlisted concept proposals, should the tenderer not be the highest bidder. This modified tender approach will encourage tenderers to draw up exceptional concept proposals, in order to achieve the best possible development outcome for the precinct. The top-up option will, however, be offered very selectively, limited to one or two proposals that are considered exceptionally outstanding amongst all shortlisted concept proposals in the first Concept Evaluation stage. In the situation where there is no such outstanding proposal identified, the award will be given to the highest bidder.