## URA presents plans for inclusive and lively neighbourhoods in central locations
---
title: URA presents plans for inclusive and lively neighbourhoods in central locations

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr23-40

date: 03 November 2023

---

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

\- New public housing to be introduced to Pearl's Hill neighbourhood after more than 40 years  
\- Good mix of housing types being studied at other central locations  
\- Public invited to give feedback on proposals as part of public engagement efforts to Shape a Happy Healthy City under the Draft Master Plan 2025

  Published: 03 November 2023

More homes and neighbourhoods are being planned in central locations to cater to Singaporeans' diverse aspirations and lifestyle needs, meet growing demand for housing and build stronger communities. URA unveiled the plans for new neighbourhoods at Pearl's Hill and Marina South, and showcased conceptual plans for Bukit Timah Turf City, the former Keppel golf course site and Mount Pleasant at the  exhibition, launched today by Mr Desmond Lee, Minister for National Development and Minister-in-charge of Social Services Integration.   
  
The plans are part of efforts under Draft Master Plan 2025 to ‘Shape a Happy Healthy City'. They reflect the strategy to provide a better mix of housing options island-wide to make homes more inclusive, accessible and affordable, in response to Singaporeans' feedback during URA's [Long-Term Plan Review](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Planning/Long-Term-Plan-Review).    
  
Located in the Central Region including the city centre, future residents of these areas can look forward to attractive mixed-use neighbourhoods with high accessibility to public transport nodes and active mobility networks. These areas offer exceptional convenience with a wide range of amenities, workplaces and recreational options at their doorsteps. The plans for each neighbourhood will also be anchored on their unique features and identity of the locations, providing residents with a distinctive living environment.  
  
**More homes in the city centre**  
  
More homes have been planned in the city centre to enable more people to enjoy the benefits of city living, including the proximity to workplaces in the Central Business District (CBD) and easy access to amenities. This is also part of ongoing efforts to introduce diverse mixed-use spaces to transform the city centre into an attractive and vibrant place to live, work and play in.   
  
Pearl's Hill: New public and private homes for hillside living in the city   
  
Located on top of one of two remaining hills in our city, Pearl's Hill is set to undergo development as an inclusive and community-centric neighbourhood. It will offer a mix of public housing (including Build-To-Order flats and rental flats) alongside private homes (including condominiums and serviced apartments) to cater to diverse needs and lifestyle preferences. This marks the first time in more than 40 years that new public housing is introduced to the Pearl's Hill area. About 6,000 new homes will be progressively developed over the next 10 years, offering unique hillside living in the city.  
  
Future residents can look forward to a variety of amenities within a proposed mixed-use development to be integrated with Outram Park MRT station and around the neighbourhood to meet their daily needs. They can enjoy sustainable and active living as well as interact and bond with neighbours, with new public plazas and recreational spaces that are sensitively integrated with Pearl's Hill City Park. Refer to [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2023/Nov/pr23-40a.pdf)  for more information on the plans for Pearl's Hill.  
  
**More housing options in other parts of Central Region**  
  
Apart from the city centre, plans are underway to introduce more homes in various areas within the Central Region, extending the convenience and accessibility to a broader segment of residents. These include Bukit Timah Turf City, Mount Pleasant and the former Keppel golf course site.   
  
Bukit Timah Turf City  
  
The new neighbourhood at Bukit Timah Turf City will benefit from the convenience of two MRT stations. We are currently studying the possibility of providing a diverse range of housing options, including both private and public housing, as well as complementary amenities to cater to a wide range of aspirations, preferences and budgets.   
  
The detailed plans for the area are being studied and new developments will be sensitively integrated with existing nature and heritage assets. In particular, the character of the future neighbourhood will be anchored on the area's rich heritage as a former racecourse as well as retaining areas with ecological value and creating a network of green landscapes for ecological connectivity. More details will be announced when ready. Refer to [Annex B](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2023/Nov/pr23-40b.pdf)  for more information on the conceptual plans for Bukit Timah Turf City.  
  
Refer to Annex [C](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2023/Nov/pr23-40c_v2.pdf)  for more information on the plans for Marina South, the former Keppel golf course site and Mount Pleasant.   
  
Mr Lim Eng Hwee, Chief Executive Officer of Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), said, "We are committed to fulfilling the goal in the Long-Term Plan of making housing more inclusive and accessible for generations of Singaporeans. In the current review of the Master Plan, we will therefore plan for a greater variety of housing options across different parts of the island, and prioritise development on brownfield sites such as Pearl's Hill. While doing so, we will take care of the ecological and heritage significance of these areas by developing sensitively and sustainably. We welcome ideas from Singaporeans on the plans as we continue this journey to shape a liveable, inclusive and endearing home for all."   
  
Public feedback sought for plans on new homes in central locations   
  
The plans on the new neighbourhoods will be exhibited at The URA Centre until 2 February 2024. Members of the public are invited to visit the exhibition and provide their feedback. They can also sign up for guided tours of the exhibition hosted by URA volunteers at [go.gov.sg/mcmh](https://go.gov.sg/mcmh).   
  
The public can also view the key ideas of the plans and share their thoughts at [go.gov.sg/MyCityMyHome](https://go.gov.sg/MyCityMyHome).  
  
More details on initiatives under the Draft Master Plan 2025 public engagement will be shared over the next two years. Members of the public can visit [go.gov.sg/URADraftMasterPlan](https://go.gov.sg/URADraftMasterPlan) to stay updated, indicate their areas of interest, and sign up for public engagement activities.