## Tender closing for private assisted living development site at Parry Avenue
---
title: Tender closing for private assisted living development site at Parry Avenue

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr23-05

date: 21 March 2023

---

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 21 March 2023

The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Urban Redevelopment Authority closed the tender for the site at Parry Avenue for a private assisted living development today.  
  
A total of 4 tender submissions have been received. Please see [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2023/Mar/pr23-05a.pdf)  for the particulars of the tenderers.  
  
**Concept and Price Revenue Tender**  
  
The site was launched for sale via a Concept and Price Revenue tender on 29 September 2022. As private assisted living is a new housing-cum-care model that MOH and URA are co-creating with industry players, we expect to receive a range of proposals for innovative assisted living models. This tender approach was adopted to ensure that the selected concept proposal is aligned with our vision for a private assisted living development.   
  
Under this approach, tenderers are required to submit their concept proposals and tender prices separately. The concept proposals will first be evaluated by a Concept Evaluation Committee (CEC), chaired by MOH, based on criteria such as suitability and innovativeness of the proposed model of care, as well as quality of the proposed care programmes and services.  
  
Only concept proposals that are shortlisted will proceed to the second stage of evaluation, which will be based only on price. The site will then be awarded to the shortlisted tenderer with the highest bid price.  
  
This is not an announcement of tender award. A decision on the award of the tender will be announced at a later date after the tenders have been evaluated.   
  
**MINISTRY OF HEALTH   
URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY**