## CLC and URA launch the City Network for the Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize

---

title: CLC and URA launch the City Network for the Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr24-27

date: 03 June 2024

---

---

Published: 03 June 2024

1. The Centre for Liveable Cities (CLC) and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) have launched the **City Network for the Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize (LKYWCP Network)** to facilitate global knowledge exchange on building liveable and sustainable cities, and to contribute towards improving the lives of citizens globally. Mr Desmond Lee, Minister for National Development, announced the new initiative at the Opening Plenary of the World Cities Summit 2024 today.

2. Envisioned as a community of practice for urban leaders and practitioners to collaborate on projects and provide a platform for global dialogue on urban issues, the Network aims to bring cities together to collectively address urban challenges through partnerships between government officials, planning departments and knowledge organisations. Founding Members of the Network comprise representatives from the seven Laureate cities of the LKYWCP since its inauguration in 2010 as well as nominated knowledge organisations from each city. The 20 Special Mention cities that have been recognised by the LKYWCP over the years have been invited to join the Network from today. The Network will also welcome future LKYWCP award recipients to join as Members, and selected cities as associate members.

3. Members will participate in various forms of knowledge sharing on best practices and capability building initiatives to identify solutions for urban challenges. Collaboration efforts may take the form of multilateral projects such as joint research and pilots on sustainable urban rejuvenation as well as joint publications featuring case studies on models and approaches to quality affordable housing. The outcomes of such projects will be shared at future editions of the World Cities Summit for global benefit. The inaugural Knowledge Forum taking place at the World Cities Summit today will kickstart the collaboration efforts of the Network.

4. "The establishment of the Network is a sign of commitment from Singapore to foster global excellence in urban planning and policy for liveable and sustainable cities. Through a range of activities under the Network including sessions at World Cities Summit, we will facilitate cities sharing their innovative urban solutions, challenges, and successes, thereby enhancing learning and adaptation of best practices among cities across the world," said Mr Hugh Lim, Executive Director, CLC.

5. "The cities recognised by the LKYWCP embody the spirit of innovation and resilience. Having successfully implemented practical solutions to transform their cities, they offer a rich source of knowledge and experience in tackling a broad range of urban issues and challenges. We hope that the knowledge shared by the members of the Network and future collaborations will inspire more cities to strive towards creating more liveable, inclusive and sustainable communities around the world," said Mr Lim Eng Hwee, Chief Executive Officer, URA.

6. The World Cities Summit is a leading international event that gathers city leaders, policymakers, and experts to address urban challenges and share innovative solutions for sustainable development. The Lee Kuan Yew World City Prize (LKYWCP), awarded bienially, honours visionary leaders and city initiatives that have significantly improved urban environments and quality of life. To learn more about this year's LKYWCP Laureate and Special Mention cities,,please visit [https://www.leekuanyewworldcityprize.gov.sg/.](https://www.leekuanyewworldcityprize.gov.sg/)
