## Award of tender for the commercial and residential site at Sengkang Central

---

title: Award of tender for the commercial and residential site at Sengkang Central

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr18-50

date: 16 August 2018

---

Published: 16 August 2018

The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) today awarded the tender for the commercial and residential site at Sengkang Central to Siena Residential Development Pte. Ltd. and Siena Trustee Pte. Ltd. (as Trustee-Manager of Siena Commercial Trust).

**Land parcel at Sengkang Central**

Envisioned to be a focal point and identity marker for the Buangkok estate, the future mixed-use development will be an integrated community hub to meet the needs of residents in Buangkok, with amenities such as a hawker centre, community club, childcare centre, retail shops, as well as public rail and bus transport facilities sited in a one-stop location. (See details of the site in [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Aug/pr18-50a.pdf) ).

**Concept and Price Revenue tender**

In line with this vision, URA had adopted a Concept and Price Revenue tender to shortlist quality development concepts that are attractive with meaningful integration of amenities and thoughtfully designed public spaces connected through a seamless network of pedestrian-friendly streets (see [Annex B](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Aug/pr18-50b.pdf)  on the summary of evaluation criteria).

At the first stage of the tender process, those Concept Proposals that had substantially satisfied the evaluation criteria were shortlisted by the Concept Evaluation Committee (CEC) to proceed to the second stage of tender evaluation. At the second stage, only the price envelopes submitted by the tenderers of the shortlisted Concept Proposals were opened for consideration. The site would then be awarded to the tenderer with the highest bid among the tenderers with shortlisted Concept Proposals.

**Details of tender**

The Concept and Price Revenue tender for the subject site at Sengkang Central was launched for sale on 28 December 2017 and its tender had closed on 21 June 2018. A total of seven Concept Proposals from six tenderers were received for the site as one of the tenderers submitted two Concept Proposals.

**Evaluation of Concept Proposals**

All tenderers were given the opportunity to present their proposals to the CEC. After evaluation, the CEC concluded that the four Concept Proposals submitted by the following tenderers had substantially satisfied the evaluation criteria and should proceed to the second stage of tender evaluation:

- i. PQJ Retail Management Pte. Ltd. (as Trustee-Manager of PQJ Retail Trust) and PQJ Residential Development Pte. Ltd. (Tender Ref. 67)

- ii. Wingcharm Investment Pte. Ltd., Wingaim Investment Pte. Ltd., Damigo Pte. Ltd. and K-Commercial Pte. Ltd. (Tender Ref. 30)

- iii. Siena Residential Development Pte. Ltd. and Siena Trustee Pte. Ltd. (as Trustee-Manager of Siena Commercial Trust) (Tender Ref. 53)

- iv. Cressida 1 Pte. Ltd. and Callisto 5 Pte. Ltd. (Tender Ref. 78)

The four shortlisted tenderers submitted strong overall development concepts and architectural designs that responded appropriately to the site context. All these schemes took selective and appropriate references of the site context to inform the proposed building forms, layouts, massing strategies and/or architectural expression. All the four schemes demonstrated strong and effective integration of public spaces and the various uses. These schemes also maintained a pedestrian-friendly public realm at the 1st storey, thereby creating interesting and active street frontages with quality landscaping. The public spaces were well-located and well-designed to accommodate communal activities, ranging from organised community events to informal gatherings. The tenderers and lead architects for these schemes also have good track records in designing, developing and managing good quality mixed-use developments in Singapore or overseas.

**Tendered land prices**

The price envelopes of the four shortlisted tenderers were opened and the details of their price bids are shown in [Annex C](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Aug/pr18-50c.pdf) . In accordance with the Concept and Price Revenue tender system, the Sengkang Central site is awarded to Siena Residential Development Pte. Ltd. and Siena Trustee Pte. Ltd. (as Trustee-Manager of Siena Commercial Trust) which submitted the highest bid of $777,777,777.00 among the four shortlisted tenderers.

**Concept Proposal of the successful tenderer**

The proposed mixed-use development will have an integrated community and transport hub with a bus interchange on the first storey, a hawker centre on the second storey and a community club that spans across three storeys.

The scheme demonstrates a well-conceived design strategy where the existing park is extended to the community through a series of public spaces. A "Green High Line" which is an accessible Garden Ramp will allow residents and park users direct and seamless access from Compassvale Ancilla Park to the 2nd storey hawker centre. There will also be a "Linear Park" designed with play areas and street furniture with an Outdoor Activity Plaza along the entire frontage of the development, enhancing a sense of place for its visitors. A Community Plaza that is located in the heart of the development will be an attractive, naturally ventilated sheltered public space that can accommodate a wide range of activities from organised events to informal gatherings.

Overall, the Concept Proposal by Siena Residential Development Pte. Ltd. and Siena Trustee Pte. Ltd. (as Trustee-Manager of Siena Commercial Trust) is compelling in its design concept and planning of the public realm (see [Annex D](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Aug/pr18-50d.pdf) ).
