## New appointments to the Urban Redevelopment Authority Board

---

title: New appointments to the Urban Redevelopment Authority Board

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr18-18

date: 28 March 2018

---

Published: 28 March 2018

Five new members will be appointed to the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) Board with effect from 1 April 2018. Chairman of the board, Mr Peter Ho Hak Ean (何学渊), who is also the Senior Advisor, Centre for Strategic Futures and Senior Fellow, Civil Service College, will be reappointed, along with seven other members. Five members are stepping down from the Board.

**New Board Members**

The five new members are:

- i. Ms Judy Hsu (徐仲薇), Chief Executive Officer, Singapore and ASEAN Markets, Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) Ltd;
- ii. Ms Angelene Chan (陈丽君), Chief Executive Officer, DP Architects Pte Ltd;
- iii. Mr Chang York Chye, Bill (张学才), Chief Executive Officer, Group Enterprise, Singtel Ltd;
- iv. Mr Ong Kim Pong (王金榜), Regional Chief Executive Officer, Southeast Asia, PSA International Pte Ltd; and
- v. Mr Khairudin Saharom, Principal and Director, Kite Studio Architecture.

**Re-appointed Members**

In addition to Mr Ho, the seven re-appointed members are:

- i. Mr Tan Chee Meng (陈志明), Senior Counsel, Deputy Chairman, WongPartnership LLP;
- ii. Mr Nagaraj Sivaram, Partner, Assurance, Ernst & Young LLP;
- iii. Mr Khew Sin Khoon (丘新坤), President & Group Chief Executive Officer, CPG Corporation Pte Ltd;
- iv. Prof Brenda Yeoh Saw Ai (杨淑爱), Vice Provost (Graduate Education), National University of Singapore;
- v. Dr Cheong Wei Yang (张伟洋), Deputy Chief Executive Officer, National Research Foundation, Prime Minister's Office;
- vi. Mr Ngien Hoon Ping (鄞云斌), Chief Executive, Land Transport Authority; and
- vii. Mr Lim Eng Hwee (林荣辉), Chief Executive Officer, Urban Redevelopment Authority.

**Members who are stepping down**

The five board members stepping down after their terms end on 31 March 2018 are:

- i. Mr Mok Wei Wei (莫玮玮), Managing Director, W Architects Pte Ltd;
- ii. Mr Liang Eng Hwa (连荣华), Managing Director, Treasury & Markets, DBS Bank Ltd, and MP for Holland-Bukit Timah GRC;
- iii. Mr Sim Heng Joo, Joe (沈恒毅), Chief Executive Officer, Malaysia Operations Division, Parkway Pantai Ltd;
- iv. Mr Goh Sin Teck (吴新迪), Editor, Lianhe Zaobao & Lianhe Wanbao, Singapore Press Holdings Ltd; and
- v. Ms Anisa Hassan, Managing Director, IJL Professional Dating (S) Ptd Ltd.

With these appointment changes, the URA Board will have 13 members, including Mr Peter Ho. All appointments will be for a three-year term until 31 March 2021. The full list of URA board members is appended in the [Annex](<https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Mar/pr18-18a(2).pdf>) .

MND and URA welcome the new board members and look forward to the continued support of the reappointed Chairman and board members. MND and URA also extend its appreciation to all outgoing board members for their invaluable service, guidance and contributions during their tenure.

**Jointly issued by: Ministry of National Development and Urban Redevelopment Authority**
