## Award of tender for the residential site at Hillview Rise

---

title: Award of tender for the residential site at Hillview Rise

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr18-41

date: 03 July 2018

---

Published: 03 July 2018

The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) today awarded the tender for the residential site at Hillview Rise to Intrepid Investments Pte. Ltd. and Garden Estates (Pte) Limited.

The Concept and Price Revenue tender approach was adopted for the sale of the Hillview Rise site which has a sizeable residential GFA of about 40,030 sqm and a regular configuration, to spearhead construction productivity through adoption of innovative construction technologies or methods. See details of the site in [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Jul/pr18-41a.pdf) .

**Concept and Price Revenue tender**

At the first stage of the tender process, those Concept Proposals that had substantially satisfied the evaluation criteria on construction productivity were shortlisted by the Concept Evaluation Committee (CEC) chaired by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA), to proceed to the second stage of tender evaluation. See [Annex B](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Jul/pr18-41b.pdf) on the evaluation criteria. At the second stage, only the price envelopes of the shortlisted Concept Proposals were opened for consideration. The site would then be awarded to the tenderer with the highest bid among the tenderers with shortlisted Concept Proposals.

**Evaluation of Concept Proposals**

The Concept and Price Revenue tender for the site was launched for sale on 28 December 2017 and its tender had closed on 3 May 2018. A total of nine Concept Proposals from eight tenderers were received for the site as one tenderer submitted two Concept Proposals. All eight tenderers presented their proposals to the CEC who shortlisted six Concept Proposals submitted by the following tenderers:

- i. Intrepid Investments Pte. Ltd. and Garden Estates (Pte) Limited (Tender Ref. 11)
- ii. Areca Realty Pte. Ltd. and CDL Constellation Pte. Ltd. (Tender Ref. 65)
- iii. CDL Constellation Pte. Ltd. and Areca Realty Pte. Ltd. (Tender Ref. 95)
- iv. CSC Land Group (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. (Tender Ref. 78)
- v. Qingjian Realty (Residential) Pte. Ltd. (Tender Ref. 38)
- vi. Yanlord Singapore Residential Pte. Ltd. and Soilbuild Group Holdings Ltd (Tender Ref. 51)

**Tendered land prices**

The price envelopes of the six shortlisted Concept Proposals were opened under the second stage of the tender evaluation and the details of their price bids are shown in [Annex C](<https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Jul/pr18-41c(3).pdf>) . In accordance with the Concept and Price Revenue tender system, the Hillview Rise site is awarded to Intrepid Investments Pte. Ltd. and Garden Estates (Pte) Limited which submitted the highest bid of $460,000,000 among the six shortlisted Concept Proposals.

**Concept Proposal of the successful tenderer**

The successful tenderer proposed the extensive adoption of Prefabricated Prefinished Volumetric Construction (PPVC) with substantial layout modularization and high levels of construction integration in carrying out the development of the site. The adoption of Mass Engineered Timber (MET) for the clubhouse further increases the level of prefabrication and reduces the works to be done on site, leading to improved construction productivity.

The successful tenderer will adopt BIM-based scheduling as well as QR code tracking to achieve effective project scheduling and cloud-based logistics tracking during construction. The successful tenderer will also adopt an integrated project delivery approach through the use of Virtual Design and Construction (VDC) on digital platforms for different parties to share and coordinate information throughout the project lifecycle.

Overall, the Concept Proposal by Intrepid Investments Pte. Ltd. and Garden Estates (Pte) Limited is robust in its proposed construction productivity plan and construction management plan which aim to achieve substantial reduction in manpower, leading to significantly improved productivity outcomes.
