## Revision of development charge rates

---

title: Revision of development charge rates

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr18-12

date: 28 February 2018

---

Published: 28 February 2018

The Ministry of National Development has revised the development charge (DC) rates for the period 1 March 2018 to 31 August 2018. The review is carried out on a half-yearly basis in consultation with the Chief Valuer.

The DC rates for two Use Groups, namely Groups A (Commercial) and B2 {Residential, (non-landed)} have increased. The DC rates remain unchanged for Use Groups B1 {Residential, (landed)}, C (Hotel/Hospital), D (Industry), E (Place of Worship / Civic and Community Institution), and 3 other Use Groups F, G and H. (See [Appendix 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Feb/pr18-12a.pdf) for Table of DC Rates).

The DC rates for Use Group A (Commercial) have increased by 2.7% on average. 41 out of the 118 sectors have increases in DC rates ranging from 4% to 16%. There is no change to the DC rates for the remaining 77 sectors. The largest increase of 16% applies to the following sectors:

- Sectors 1 & 2 (Cross Street / Collyer Quay / Fullerton Square / Boat Quay / South Canal Road / South Bridge Road / Church Street / Telok Ayer Street)
- Sectors 3 to 5 (Ophir Road / Rochor Road / Victoria Street / Hill Street/ Singapore River / Suntec City / Raffles Boulevard)
- Sector 6 (Collyer Quay)

The DC rates for Use Group B2 {Residential, (non-landed)} have increased by 22.8% on average. 116 out of 118 sectors have increases in DC rates ranging from 12% to 38%. There is no change to the DC rates for the remaining 2 sectors. The largest increase of 38% applies to the following sectors:

- Sector 19 (River Valley Road / Kim Seng Road / Jiak Kim Street / Martin Road / Mohamed Sultan Road / Clemenceau Avenue / Outram Road)
- Sector 23 (Oxley Rise / Oxley Road / Penang Road / Orchard Road / Dhoby Ghaut / Handy Road / Selegie Road)
- Sector 34 (Sophia Road / Upper Wilkie Road / Mackenzie Road / Niven Road / Kirk Terrace / Adis Road)

There are no changes to the Use Groups Table and the Geographical Sector maps.

The revised DC rates ([Appendix 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Feb/pr18-12a.pdf) ), will be effective from 1 March 2018. The new rates will apply to cases which are granted Provisional Permission (PP) or 2nd and subsequent extensions to the PP on or after the effective date.

If there is any disagreement over the DC payable for any development proposal calculated based on the rates under the respective Use Groups, developers and owners can opt for a case-by-case valuation by the Chief Valuer, as provided for in the Planning Act.

For media enquiries on DC sectors and use groups, please contact Ms Yak Pek Ching from URA at Tel. No. 6321 6513. For media enquiries on valuation matters, please contact Ms Aik Jye from IRAS at Tel. No. 6351 2074.

\* Please use the [Development Charge (DC) Sector Maps and Rates](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Planning-Permission/Folder/DC-Charge-Rates) to find out the DC sector number and rates of a particular site.
