## Interactive installations submitted by public to be tested at malls

---

title: Interactive installations submitted by public to be tested at malls

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr18-37

date: 26 June 2018

---

Vote for your favourite for a chance to win vouchers

Published: 26 June 2018

Three innovative proposals submitted by members of the public have been shortlisted for the final round of the URA-REDAS SPARK Challenge. Prototypes of the submissions have been installed across six shopping malls for the public to interact with and vote for over the next two weeks.

The SPARK Challenge seeks creative ideas that can raise the quality of the urban environment. This inaugural edition, launched last November by the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) and the Real Estate Developers' Association of Singapore (REDAS), specifically seeks solutions to enhance health and wellness within the urban environment. The team with the winning proposal will receive $10,000.

The three shortlisted prototypes were submitted by teams with varying backgrounds, including architecture, engineering and home-making.

The first prototype "Take – 5! Stones" is a play on the expression to "take five" (to take a five-minute break) and the traditional game of Five Stones. Large cushions shaped like stones serve as seats around tables with the Five Stones game, inviting the public to have a rest and play a game.

The second prototype "Peace and Power" consists of a large bird cage-like structure, which holds seats where the public can rest. Wireless charging for mobile devices and speakers playing music are incorporated into the structure. As more people sit in the structure, more lights will illuminate it with different patterns.

The third prototype "Buddy" features a punching bag that the public can punch to relieve stress. When the punching bag is hit, the machine to which it is attached will issue an inspirational quote. For more information on the prototypes and the teams behind them, please see [Appendix A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Jul/pr18-37a(2).pdf) .

The public can interact with these prototypes from **today to 4 July**, and vote for their favourites online from today to 4 July. Those who vote will stand a chance to win shopping vouchers worth $100. "Take – 5! Stones" can be found at The Centrepoint and City Square Mall, "Peace and Power" at Millenia Walk and Raffles City Shopping Mall, while "Buddy" will be at Orchard Central and Velocity @ Novena Square.

At the end of the two weeks, the results of the online vote will be computed together with the scores of a panel of judges to decide the final winner.

"We are gratified to see how the competition has sparked off ideas in members of the public, who used their ingenuity to invent and design these prototypes that everyone can enjoy, and which enhance the urban environment," said Lim Eng Hwee, Chief Executive Officer of URA.

"I look forward to seeing these creative prototypes up and running in the malls, and encourage people to enjoy them between shopping or catch-up sessions with friends," said REDAS President Augustine Tan.

Update: The 2018 SPARK Challenge has ended.
