## It's Car-Free Weekend for October!

---

title: It's Car-Free Weekend for October!

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr18-55

date: 11 September 2018

---

Published: 11 September 2018

A Car-Free Weekend will be held from 26 to 28 October, as an extension of the Car-Free Sunday SG initiative to promote Singapore's car-lite vision. This will be the first Car-Free Weekend event in the city, with activities spread over three days, during Friday lunchtime, Saturday evening and Sunday morning. The extended car-free event, supported by a network of community partners, will enable more to enjoy the car-free experience and participate in a variety of activities both during the day and at night.

**Friday, 26 October: People-friendly streets**   
Kick-starting the Car-Free Weekend will be the closure of Telok Ayer Street and Amoy Street on Friday from 11am to 3pm to make the streets more walkable. Members of the public can enjoy the lunchtime buzz or take a pleasant stroll down the streets without cars.

**Saturday, 27 October: Music, art and cultural activities, fitness and Halloween fun**  
On Saturday evening, parts of the Civic District and Telok Ayer conservation area will be closed to traffic and transformed into pedestrian-friendly and vibrant activity spaces for the public to enjoy a car-free environment.

From as early as 5pm until 11pm on Saturday, participants can enjoy an exciting line-up of activities organised by National Parks Board (NParks) as part of its Parks Festival. These include the showcase of NParks Live Out Loud: Battle of the Band finalists and NParks Concert Series in the Park: Rockestra® concert featuring classic retro as well as current hits at Empress Lawn; an arts and gardening bazaar; outdoor art installations and interactive stations; and sketching tours at Esplanade Park and Connaught Drive. Participants who enjoy evening workouts will have plenty of fitness options presented by ActiveSG. Those looking for spooky thrills can join the ACM After Dark Halloween event at the Asian Civilisations Museum from 7pm to 11pm.

Over at the Telok Ayer conservation area, Stanley Street, Amoy Street and Telok Ayer Street will be closed to vehicular traffic, making the area more walkable for people to explore and enjoy the historic district. Visitors can immerse themselves in the heritage of the area with cultural performances. They can also look forward to a flea market, free trishaw rides, movie screening and street games, or try their hands at UV painting on a large canvas at night. Foodies can join the free walking food tours as they learn more about Telok Ayer.

**Sunday, 28 October: Got-to-Move SPOTLIGHT, Farmers' Market, workouts and more**  
Come Sunday morning, from 8am to 12pm, the community can cycle, jog and walk the entire 5.5km-long car-free route from the Civic District to Central Business District and Telok Ayer conservation area, and participate in family-friendly community activities in a car-free environment. These include Got-to-Move (GTM) SPOTLIGHT (organised by the National Arts Council) – an annual dance carnival where the public comes together to experience dance through the GTM Dance-Walk – a playful mashup between a danceathon and walkathon, performances, taster classes and interactive programmes across different genres and art forms; Farmers' Market (organised by the Agri-Food & Veterinary Authority and the Singapore Agro-Food Enterprises Federation) where the public can shop for fresh locally farmed produce; and a multitude of energising workouts by ActiveSG for the sports enthusiasts and try-outs for those keen to pick up a sport.

Those who missed out the fun at the Parks Festival on Saturday evening can look forward to catching up on the festivities on Sunday morning – such as the arts and gardening bazaar, outdoor art installations and interactive stations, and sketching tours. Parks Festival activities will continue until 5pm at the Esplanade Park.

At Telok Ayer, participants can join the fitness sessions, art jamming or visit Nagore Dargah Indian Muslim Heritage Centre, Singapore Yu Huang Gong and Thian Hock Keng temple.

Please refer to the [Annex](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2018/Sep/pr18-55a.pdf)  for road closure maps. More details on Car-Free Weekend October edition will be announced closer to the event. For updates, click [here](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Get-Involved/Go-Car-Lite/Car-Free-Sunday/CFS/About-CFS).
