## Free of cars and full of fun at one-north's first Car-Free Weekend

---

title: Free of cars and full of fun at one-north's first Car-Free Weekend

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr19-33

date: 26 August 2019

---

Featuring Singapore's first eco food truck street, outdoor drone arcade, outdoor movie screenings and virtual reality games

Published: 26 August 2019

Back by popular demand, Car-Free Sunday SG @ one-north is returning this year as Car-Free Weekend with an extension to two days of activities. Visitors can explore the estate by walking, jogging, or cycling.

Jointly organised by JTC Corporation (JTC) and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), Car-Free Weekend @ one-north is happening this weekend on 30 August, Friday, 11am to 9pm and 31 August, Saturday, 5pm to 9pm. The event will see full and partial road closures at Ayer Rajah Avenue, North Buona Vista Road and Portsdown Road, to cater for a wide variety of activities. This is in line with JTC's efforts to promote Singapore's car-lite vision, and create an enjoyable and vibrant car-free experience at one-north for the working community, residents from surrounding areas and the public.

President Halimah Yacob will flag off the evening programme on Saturday at Portsdown Road which will be attended by participants from various communities, across all ages. Cycling with Dad, co-organised by Centre for Fathering, Lutheran Community Care Services and Singapore Cycling Federation, will see 75 pairs of father and child cyclists participating and strengthening their relationship through sports. There will also be more than 700 residents from constituencies such as Ayer Rajah, Bukit Batok East, Choa Chu Kang, Keat Hong, Nee Soon South, Pioneer, Telok Blangah and Ulu Pandan, and 100 runners from District Race SG.

Cycling enthusiasts of all ages will get to enjoy different cycling activities catered for them. There will be the Strider Adventure Zone for toddlers and children, cycling obstacle courses for thrill-seeking youths and enthusiasts, and trishaw rides with volunteers from Cycling Without Age to explore the estate for seniors. Trainers from Ageless Bicyclists will be on hand to teach children with special needs on how to cycle and repair bicycles.

As an established tech hub, a specially-curated programme will feature kids robotics and coding workshops, and the first-ever outdoor Drone Arcade where laser tag guns are used to shoot down drones in a 'Space Invader'-styled game.

In support of Singapore's ‘Year Towards Zero Waste', the event will feature Singapore's first Eco Food Truck Street at Fusionopolis Way where participants will be able to try out a variety of eco-friendly foods in a car-free environment. The line-up includes Creamy Shrooms Burger from VeganBurg, Artisanal Ice Cream from The Dark Gallery, Cold Compressed Juices, Pistachio Cranberry Biscotti from HIC Juice & The Edible Co., Signature Beef Donburi from Don8uri, and many more. Ingredients are sourced sustainably and are served on cutlery, plates, and packaging made from biodegradable or recycled materials. The food waste will be recycled into organic fertiliser, while the cooking oil will be processed into biodiesel, or grease, reusing waste generated at the event.

Two outdoor movie screenings will screen over Friday and Saturday evenings, marking the event's first two-day extension. Families and friends can catch Zootopia and Bumblebee at Fusionopolis Plaza, while enjoying picnic under the stars.

JTC's Group Director of New Estates, Kok Poh June said, "Co-organising Car-Free Weekend is one of our key initiatives that will further reinforce our ambition to make one-north a car-lite business park. We are heartened by the strong support from the one-north community and residents in the area, and will continue to make this an attractive workplace and vibrant playground for workers and residents."

URA's Group Director of Architecture and Urban Design, Ms Yap Lay Bee said, "We are pleased to bring Car-Free Weekend to one-north and provide another venue outside the city for the community to experience a car-free environment. With the wide range of activities planned, we encourage everyone to come and enjoy the vibrant car-free spaces at one-north with your family and friends."

Please refer to [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2019/Aug/pr19-33a.pdf) for the key event highlights, and [Annex B](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2019/Aug/pr19-33b.pdf) for the event map and road closure plan. Click [here](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Get-Involved/Go-Car-Lite/Car-Free-Sunday/CFS/About-CFS) to find out more.
