## Revision of development charge rates
---
title: Revision of development charge rates

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr19-10

date: 28 February 2019

---

------------------------------------

  Published: 28 February 2019

The Ministry of National Development has revised the development charge (DC) rates for the period 1 March 2019 to 31 August 2019.  The review is carried out on a half-yearly basis in consultation with the Chief Valuer.   
    
The DC rates for two Use Groups, namely Groups A (Commercial) and C (Hotel/Hospital) have increased; while the DC rates for Use Group B2 {Residential, (non-landed)} have decreased.  The DC rates remain unchanged for Use Groups B1 {Residential, (landed)}, D (Industry), E (Place of Worship / Civic and Community Institution), and 3 other Use Groups F, G and H. (See [Appendix 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2019/Feb/pr19-10a.pdf)  for Table of DC Rates).

The DC rates for Use Group A (Commercial) have increased by 9.8% on average.  116 out of the 118 sectors have increases in DC rates ranging from 3% to 17%. There is no change to the DC rates for the remaining 2 sectors. The largest increase of 17% applies to the following sectors:

• Sector 15 (Outram Road / Eu Tong Sen Street)

• Sector 16 (Cantonment Road / Chinatown area / New Bridge Road / Upper Cross Street / Cross Street / Stanley Street / McCallum Street / Amoy Street / Erskine Road / South Bridge Road / Maxwell Road / Peck Seah Street / Gopeng Street / Tanjong Pagar Road)

• Sector 21 (New Bridge Road / Boat Quay / South Canal Road / South Bridge Road / Upper Pickering Street)

• Sector 25 (Selegie Road / Kirk Terrace / Niven Road)

• Sector 28 (Victoria Street / Jalan Sultan / Beach Road / Ophir Road)

• Sector 29 (Rochor Canal Road / Victoria Street / Ophir Road)

• Sector 30 (Jalan Besar / Syed Alwi Road / Rochor Canal Road)

• Sector 93 (Geylang Road / Changi Road / Telok Kurau area / Marine Parade Road / Joo Chiat Road / East Coast Road / Haig Road)

The DC rates for Use Group B2 {Residential, (non-landed)} have decreased by 5.5% on average.  94 out of 118 sectors have reduction in DC rates ranging from 4% to 13%. Rates are unchanged for the remaining 24 sectors. The largest decrease of 13% applies to the following sectors:

• Sector 59 (Thomson Road / PIE / CTE / Mandalay Road / Irrawaddy Road)

• Sector 91 (Dunman Road / Tanjong Katong Road / ECP / Fort Road / Mountbatten Road)

• Sector 93 (Geylang Road / Changi Road / Telok Kurau area / Marine Parade Road / Joo Chiat Road / East Coast Road / Haig Road)

• Sector 94 (Mountbatten Road / Joo Chiat Road / Marine Parade Road / ECP / Tanjong Katong Road)

• Sector 104 (Marymount Road / Ang Mo Kio Ave 3 / Hougang Ave 2 / Tampines Road / Defu area / Lorong Ah Soo / Upper Paya Lebar Road / Bartley Road / Braddell Road)

The DC rates for Use Group C (Hotel/hospital) have increased by 45.6% on average.  116 out of the 118 sectors have increases in DC rates ranging from 7% to 74%. There is no change to the DC rates for the remaining 2 sectors. The largest increase of 74% applies to the following sectors:

• Sector 25 (Selegie Road / Kirk Terrace / Niven Road)

• Sector 26 (Selegie Road / Rochor Canal Road / Bencoolen Street)

• Sector 28 (Victoria Street / Jalan Sultan / Beach Road / Ophir Road)

• Sector 29 (Rochor Canal Road / Victoria Street / Ophir Road)

• Sector 30 (Jalan Besar / Syed Alwi Road / Rochor Canal Road)

• Sector 32 (Serangoon Road / Bukit Timah Road / Tekka Lane / Race Course Road / Rangoon Road / Farrer Park Station Road / Birch Road)

• Sector 33 (Mackenzie Road / Bukit Timah Road)

• Sector 34 (Sophia Road / Upper Wilkie Road / Mackenzie Road / Niven Road / Kirk Terrace / Adis Road)

There are no changes to the Use Groups Table and the Geographical Sector maps.

The revised DC rates ([Appendix 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2019/Feb/pr19-10a.pdf) ), will be effective from 1 March 2019. The new rates will apply to cases which are granted Provisional Permission (PP) or 2nd and subsequent extensions to the PP on or after the effective date.

If there is any disagreement over the DC payable for any development proposal calculated based on the rates under the respective Use Groups, developers and owners can opt for a case-by-case valuation by the Chief Valuer, as provided for in the Planning Act.

For media enquiries on DC sectors and use groups, please contact Ms Yak Pek Ching from URA at Tel. No. 6321 6513. For media enquiries on valuation matters, please contact Ms Clara Ng from IRAS at Tel No. 6351 2069.



\* Please use the [Development Charge (DC) Sector Maps and Rates](http://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Planning-Permission/Folder/DC-Charge-Rates) to find out the DC sector number and rates of a particular site.