## Seeking innovations that build connections

---

title: Seeking innovations that build connections

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr19-08

date: 19 February 2019

---

Published: 19 February 2019

Inventors and designers will get a chance to gain funding for their prototypes, give them a test-run in major shopping malls and possibly win the attractive grand prize, in the latest edition of the URA-REDAS SPARK Challenge.

Launched today at the REDAS Spring Festival Lunch, this second edition of the competition will see up to ten malls spread throughout Singapore host the prototypes during the testing phase, up from six in the first edition. These include malls in the city centre and in the heartlands.

The URA-REDAS SPARK Challenge seeks creative ideas that can raise the quality of the urban environment. The inaugural edition was organised last year by the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) and the Real Estate Developers' Association of Singapore (REDAS).

This year's theme is ‘Connecting People in the City', and ties in with the Singapore Bicentennial theme of ‘openness and connectivity'. The competition is seeking original and innovative designs that can build connections among people in an urban environment. This could be through encouraging people to socialise, play or even learn together.

"Fostering connections in our city, and particularly in our malls, can help build a sense of belonging and community in these places we frequent, while making them even more vibrant. I look forward to seeing the different creative approaches people might take," said Lim Eng Hwee, Chief Executive Officer of URA.

"Last year, the prototypes were well received. They had enlivened the participating malls and attracted considerable interest from shoppers. We believe this year's prototypes will be even more interesting as they draw the shoppers and visitors together to have meaningful interactions and enriching experiences," said REDAS President Chia Ngiang Hong.

Members of the public can view the competition brief and register their interests online at [bit.ly/sparkchallenge2019](http://bit.ly/sparkchallenge2019) from today. Update: The call for registration has concluded.

Registered participants will be informed when submission opens in March. Up to five proposals will then be shortlisted and the participants given $5,000 each to develop two prototypes. The prototypes will then be placed at the shopping malls for a period of testing with the public. The winner will be selected based on the public's votes and judges' scores and be awarded the grand prize of $10,000.
