## Revision of Development Charge Rates
---
title: Revision of Development Charge Rates

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr20-24

date: 31 August 2020

---

------------------------------------

  Published: 31 August 2020

The Ministry of National Development has revised the development charge (DC) rates for the period 1 September 2020 to 28 February 2021. The review is carried out on a half-yearly basis in consultation with the Chief Valuer.  
  
The DC rates for Use Groups A (Commercial), B2 (Residential, non-landed), C (Hotel/Hospital), D (Industry) have decreased. The DC rates remain unchanged for Use Groups B1 (Residential, landed), E (Place of Worship / Civic and Community Institution), and 3 other Use Groups F, G and H. (See [Appendix 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2020/Aug/pr20-24a.pdf)   for Table of DC Rates).  
  
The DC rates for Use Group A (Commercial) have decreased by 3.6% on average. 110 out of the 118 sectors have reduction in DC rates ranging from 3% to 7%. Rates are unchanged for the remaining 8 sectors. The largest decrease of 7% applies to the following sectors:  
  
    • Sector 11 (Shenton Way/ Straits Boulevard/ Marina Boulevard/ Raffles Quay)  
  
    • Sector 12 (Bayfront Area/ Marina Bay Sands)  
  
    • Sector 41 (Cairnhill Road/ Orchard Road/ Somerset Road/ Exeter Road/ Buyong Road/ Cavenagh Road)  
  
    • Sector 42 (Scotts Road/ Orchard Road/ Orchard Boulevard/ Bideford Road/ Nutmeg Road/ Mount Elizabeth/ Claymore Road  
  
The DC rates for Use Group B2 (Residential, non-landed) have decreased by 0.8% on average. 34 out of the 118 sectors have reduction in DC rates ranging from 2% to 3%. Rates are unchanged for the remaining 84 sectors. The largest decrease of 3% applies to the following sectors:  
  
    • Sectors 53 to 59 (Jalan Besar/ Lavender Street/ Kallang Bahru/ Bendemeer Road/ Upper Boon Keng Road/ Geylang Bahru/ Serangoon Road/ Balestier Road/ Tessensohn Road/ Race Course Road/ Thomson Road/ Mandalay Road)  
  
    • Sectors 72 to 75, 78 to 79 (Alexandra Road/ Prince Charles Crescent/ Delta Road/ Jalan Bukit Ho Swee/ Zion Road/ Kim Tian Road/ Tiong Bahru Estate/ Outram Road/ New Bridge Road/ Kampong Bahru Road/ Telok Blangah Rise/ Bukit Purmei Road/ Lower Delta Road/ Jalan Bukit Merah)  
  
    • Sector 80 to 88 (Lower Delta Road/ Kim Tian Road/ Jalan Bukit Merah/ Alexandra Road/ Tiong Bahru Road/ Redhill Road/ Lengkok Bahru/ Leng Kee Road/ Ayer Rajah Expressway/ Depot Road/ Telok Blangah Road/ Henderson Road/ Telok Blangah Way/ Mount Faber/ West Coast Highway/ Keppel Bay/ Labrador Nature Reserve)  
  
    • Sector 92 (Guillemard Road/ Mountbatten Road/ Old Airport Road/ Dunman Road/ Tanjong Katong Road/ Haig Road/ Geylang Road)  
  
    • Sector 101 to 103 (Aljunied Road/ Paya Lebar Road/ Jalan Eunos/ Macpherson Road/ Geylang Road/ Guillemard Road/ Sims Way/ Hougang Avenue 3/ Upper Paya Lebar Road/ Bartley Road/ Braddell Road/ Marymount Road/ Thomson Road)  
  
    • Sector 111 (West Coast Highway/ Clementi Road/ Commonwealth Avenue/ Alexandra Road/ Labrador Villa Road)  
  
The DC rates for Use Group C (Hotel/Hospital) have decreased by 7.8% on average. 116 out of the 118 sectors have reduction in DC rates ranging from 4% to 15%. Rates are unchanged for the remaining 2 sectors. The largest decrease of 15% applies to the following sectors:  
  
    • Sector 3 (Hill Street/ Victoria Street/ Seah Street/ Beach Road/ Ophir Road/ Nicoll Highway/ Esplanade Drive/ City Hall Area)  
  
    • Sector 5 (Nicoll Highway/ Suntec City Area/ Ophir Road/ Raffles Avenue/ Promenade Area)  
  
    • Sector 6 (Collyer Quay/ Fullerton Road)  
  
    • Sector 11 (Shenton Way/ Straits Boulevard/ Marina Boulevard/ Raffles Quay)  
  
    • Sector 12 (Bayfront Area/ Marina Bay Sands)  
  
    • Sector 41 (Cairnhill Road/ Orchard Road/ Somerset Road/ Exeter Road/ Buyong Road/ Cavenagh Road)  
  
    • Sector 42 (Scotts Road/ Orchard Road/ Orchard Boulevard/ Bideford Road/ Nutmeg Road/ Mount Elizabeth/ Claymore Road)  
  
    • Sector 43 (Tanglin Road/ Cuscaden Road/ Orchard Boulevard/ Grange Road)  
  
The DC rates for Use Group D (Industry) have decreased by 0.9% on average. 52 out of the 118 sectors have reduction in DC rates ranging from 2% to 3%. Rates are unchanged for the remaining 66 sectors. The largest decrease of 3% applies to the following sectors:  
  
    • Sector 99 (Pasir Ris/ Loyang/ Changi Area)  
  
    • Sector 100 (Tampines Road/ Hougang/ Punggol/ Sengkang Area)  
  
    • Sector 114 (Boon Lay/ Jurong West/ Pioneer/ Tuas/ Sungei Kadut/ Choa Chu Kang/ Lim Chu Kang Area)  
  
    • Sector 115 (Mandai/ Woodlands/ Sembawang/ Yishun Area)  
  
    • Sector 116 (Jurong Island)  
  
There are no changes to the Use Groups Table and the Geographical Sector maps.  
  
The revised DC rates ([Appendix 1](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2020/Aug/pr20-24a.pdf) ), will be effective from 1 September 2020. The new rates will apply to cases which are granted Provisional Permission (PP) or 2nd and subsequent extensions to the PP on or after the effective date.  
  
If there is any disagreement over the DC payable for any development proposal calculated based on the rates under the respective Use Groups, developers and owners can opt for a case-by-case valuation by the Chief Valuer, as provided for in the Planning Act.  
  
For media enquiries on DC sectors and use groups, please contact Ms Yak Pek Ching from URA at Tel. No. 6321 6513. For media enquiries on valuation matters, please contact Ms Clara Ng from IRAS at Tel No. 6351 2069.  
  
\* Please use the [Development Charge (DC) Sector Maps and Rates](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Planning-Permission/Folder/DC-Charge-Rates) to find out the DC sector number and rates of a particular site.