## Ideas for Pasir Panjang Power District exhibited
---
title: Ideas for Pasir Panjang Power District exhibited

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr20-03

date: 13 January 2020

---

------------------------------------------------

Public's proposals on display, Request for Information exercise to be launched

  Published: 13 January 2020

The public will be able to view proposals for the Pasir Panjang Power District from today, in an exhibition that explores the future of the district as the first piece of the Greater Southern Waterfront to be realised within the next five years. As part of the next phase of planning for the district, a Request for Information exercise will also roll out in conjunction with the exhibition, which was opened this morning by Minister for National Development and Second Minister for Finance Lawrence Wong.

The exhibited proposals were submitted for the ideas competition ‘Power-Up Pasir Panjang', jointly organised last year by the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) and the Singapore Land Authority (SLA), which invited the public, professionals and students to re-imagine the district for the next 15 to 20 years. 79 submissions were received, and several winning proposals were selected for their originality, creativity and sensitivity to the site's unique context. For more information on the winning entries, please see [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2020/Jan/pr20-03a.pdf) .

"Many high quality entries were submitted for the ideas competition. The creative concepts and proposals will help set the stage for the next phase of planning for the power district, and contribute towards kickstarting the rejuvenation of the Greater Southern Waterfront," said Chief Executive Officer of URA Lim Eng Hwee.

"We are excited by the creativity and originality in the entries submitted. They gave us a glimpse into the potential to transform the State property at Pasir Panjang Power Station A.  We look forward to realising this potential through the transformation of the iconic property into an exciting and attractive destination for all," said Chief Executive of SLA Tan Boon Khai.

The Request for Information exercise that launches today will build on the results of the ideas competition, and facilitate detailed discussion with developers and possible future users of the power district site. This will help further refine the parameters before the release of the site for development, possibly through a tender next year. Update: This exercise has concluded.

Meanwhile, a series of engagements will also be carried out from 18 January 2020 onwards by the National Parks Board on the future Pasir Panjang Park, which will link up the power district to the rest of the Greater Southern Waterfront.

The proposals will be exhibited at The URA Centre atrium from **13 January 2020 to 7 February 2020**.



[Speech by Mr Lawrence Wong, Minister for National Development and Second Minister for Finance, at the Launch of Exhibition of Public Ideas for Pasir Panjang Power District](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Data/Newsroom/speeches/2020/Jan/speech20-03)