## Safer and more pleasant street experience at Waterloo Mall
---
title: Safer and more pleasant street experience at Waterloo Mall

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr20-37

date: 08 December 2020

---

----------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 08 December 2020

Visitors to Waterloo Mall can look forward to a safer and more pleasant street experience as agencies will be organising the activities along the popular street. Existing street vendors operating at Waterloo Mall will be offered designated spaces along stretches of Waterloo Mall and Albert Mall to set up stalls and ply their trades starting from 4 January 2021. The street enhancement exercise by the Singapore Land Authority (SLA), and supported by the Singapore Food Agency (SFA) and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), aims to improve public health and safety along the pedestrianised street by allowing safe distancing between street vendors in the area as well as unobstructed fire engine access.

Currently, the pedestrian mall is often busy and filled with stall setups and discarded boxes that obstruct the pathways. These are not conducive to both the street vendors and visitors to the area, and are potential fire hazards as they obstruct fire engine access along Waterloo Mall. The congregation of the street vendors in close proximity also poses public health and safety concerns in view of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.

To address these concerns, the vendors will be offered designated lots to ply their trades at the pedestrian mall. These designated spaces will allow for a safe distance between the stalls, while ensuring clear fire engine access for emergencies. Spacing out the designated lots for the street vendors to ply their trades also opens up more walking space for pedestrians, thus enhancing the overall street experience at Waterloo Mall.

There are 19 fortune tellers, 19 flower vendors, two reflexologists and one cobbler currently plying their trades at Waterloo Mall. All of them will each be allocated a lot to continue operating in the area.

The allocation of lots for the street vendors will be done via balloting to ensure fairness and transparency. SLA and SFA have explained the rationale to the street vendors and will continue to engage and assist them through the process. The Kampong Glam Citizens' Consultative Committee (CCC) will also provide a new umbrella to each street vendor.

As part of this street enhancement exercise, a Temporary Occupation Licence (TOL) will be issued by SLA to each street vendor for the allocated lot at a fee of $48.15 per month, which works out to around $1.60 per day. To facilitate this new arrangement, and to help the street vendors during the COVID-19 pandemic, SLA will only start collecting the TOL fee from 1 June 2021. Vendors who face financial difficulties may approach the SLA for assistance.

[Annex](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2020/Dec/pr20-37a.pdf) : Waterloo Mall street enhancement layout plan, photos and artist's impression of Waterloo Mall



**About SLA**  
Singapore Land Authority (SLA) is a statutory board with the Ministry of Law. Its mission is to optimise land resources for the social and economic development of Singapore. SLA manages some 11,000 hectares of State land and about 5,000 State properties, which have largely been tenanted out for a variety of uses. It also manages land sales, leases, acquisitions and allocation, developing and marketing land-related information, and maintaining the national land information database through digitised land information services. Being the national land registration authority for property transactions, SLA issues and guarantees land titles in Singapore. It also manages and maintains the national land survey system, where boundaries or legal limits of properties are defined, based on a coordinated cadastre survey system. The use of geospatial information is also spearheaded by SLA through a national collaborative environment where geospatial data, policies and technologies are established and defined, thereby fostering innovation, knowledge and value creation for the Government, enterprises and community.

For more details, visit [www.sla.gov.sg](http://www.sla.gov.sg) or find us on Facebook and Instagram @SingaporeLandAuthority.

**About SFA**  
As the lead agency for food-related matters, the Singapore Food Agency's mission is to ensure and secure a supply of safe food for Singapore. SFA works hand-in-hand with the industry and consumers to grow our three "food baskets" – Diversify import sources, Grow local, and Grow overseas, as well as ensure food safety from farm-to-fork.

SFA also partners food businesses to strengthen capabilities, tap on technologies to raise productivity, undertake research to develop new lines of business, and catalyse industry transformation to ensure food security.

For more information on SFA, visit [www.sfa.gov.sg](http://www.sfa.gov.sg).

**About URA**  
The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) is Singapore's land use planning and conservation agency. Our mission is ‘to make Singapore a great city to live, work and play'. We strive to create an endearing home and a vibrant city through long-term planning and innovation, in partnership with the community.  
   
URA's multi-faceted role includes being the main government land sales agent. We attract and channel private capital investments to develop sites that support planning, economic and social objectives. We also partner the community to enliven our public spaces to create a car-lite, people-friendly and liveable city for all to enjoy. In shaping a distinctive city, URA also promotes architecture and urban design excellence. Visit [www.ura.gov.sg](http://www.ura.gov.sg) for more information.

