## Tender closing for site at Gibraltar Crescent for dementia care village
---
title: Tender closing for site at Gibraltar Crescent for dementia care village

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr20-05

date: 15 January 2020

---

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 15 January 2020

On behalf of the Ministry of Health (MOH), the Urban Redevelopment Authority closed the tender for the site at Gibraltar Crescent for a dementia care village today.

The site was launched for sale via the Concept and Price Revenue Tender approach on 16 July 2019. One tender submission was received today and under this approach, only the envelope containing the concept proposal was opened for evaluation. Please see [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2020/Jan/pr20-05a.pdf)  for the particulars of the tenderer.

**Concept and Price Revenue Tender**

A Concept and Price Revenue Tender approach was adopted to evaluate this tender. This is to ensure that the selected concept proposal aligns with the vision of the dementia care village.

Under this approach, tenderers are required to submit their concept proposals and tender prices separately. The concept proposals will first be evaluated by a Concept Evaluation Committee, chaired by MOH, against a set of criteria, which include the suitability of the proposed model of care for persons with dementia, as well as the quality of the care programmes and services. Only concept proposals that are shortlisted will proceed to the second stage for evaluation based on price only.

This is not an announcement of tender award. A decision on the award of the tender will be made after the tender has been evaluated. This will be published at a later date.