## Safety takes precedence for Marina Bay Singapore Countdown 2021
---
title: Safety takes precedence for Marina Bay Singapore Countdown 2021

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr20-32

date: 05 November 2020

---

---------------------------------------------------------------

Light and projection shows from December, and heartland fireworks instead of Marina Bay fireworks on New Year's Eve, to mitigate public health risks  

  Published: 05 November 2020

This year, the **_Marina Bay Singapore Countdown 2021_** will take on a different format to bring us together to reflect on 2020 and welcome our hopes and aspirations for the coming year. As safety remains a priority in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, there will be no fireworks display at Marina Bay on 31 December 2020 to minimise crowds from gathering in the precinct.

**Light and projection shows to illuminate Marina Bay from December**

Presented by the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA), this year's Countdown will feature two key highlights at Marina Bay: a light display named **Shine a Light**; and **Share the Moment**, a storytelling showcase through projection mapping.

Representing hopes of a new beginning, **Shine a Light** comprising 60 light beams projecting from The Promontory will illuminate the Marina Bay skyline nightly from 1 December to 31 December 2020. With a collective formation of light rays projected into the sky – designed to symbolise unity, positivity and resilience – the display represents a guiding beacon that underpins Singaporeans' spirit in navigating through the pandemic and determination to emerge stronger in the new year together as a nation.

**Share the Moment** is a community project that culminates in projection mapping shows on the façades of three iconic landmarks at Marina Bay – The Fullerton Hotel Singapore, ArtScience Museum1 and the Merlion. Organised in partnership with the National Volunteer & Philanthropy Centre (NVPC), the projections will feature student artworks from various local educational institutions and will take place nightly from 25 December to 31 December 2020. Inspired by stories from the City of Good – a vision where individuals, organisations and leaders come together to give their best for others – the projected artworks will depict moments in the past year where outstanding givers came together to uplift others in the community.

Detailed information on the timings for both displays will be announced nearer their commencement. Members of the public can head down to Marina Bay to view the displays over the period.

**Enjoy the Countdown at home on New Year's Eve**

To mitigate risks of crowds gathering at Marina Bay on New Year's Eve, there will not be any fireworks display in the precinct. Instead, fireworks will be set off from different heartland locations across Singapore, bringing the Countdown experience closer to Singaporeans at home. Agencies are working out details and more information will be provided in due course.

The public can also look forward to a special New Year's Eve music programme presented by Mediacorp, Let's Celebrate 2021, that will be broadcast on Channel 5 and streamed online. The programme will feature international and local talents presenting good music, dance and fashion to usher in the new year. These include collaborations between local performers and up-and-coming creative talents from the fashion and dance communities.

The heartland fireworks and scenes from Marina Bay will also be broadcast during the show, so that everyone can look forward to a safe Countdown experience in the comfort of their homes.

Mr Lim Eng Hwee, Chief Executive Officer of the URA said, "The Marina Bay Singapore Countdown is a highlight that Singaporeans and visitors look forward to each year. It is all the more significant this year as it marks a time to reflect on the end of a challenging year, and an occasion to usher in 2021 with new hopes. As health and safety remain a priority, we have adopted a different format to ensure that the public can celebrate safely and meaningfully. We encourage all to join the Countdown at home on New Year's Eve."

For more details on the **_Marina Bay Singapore Countdown 2021_**, visit: [www.marinabaycountdown.gov.sg/](http://www.marinabaycountdown.gov.sg/).



1 Projection shows on the façade of ArtScience Museum will take place nightly from 26 December to 31 December 2020