## Award of Singapore's pilot electric vehicle charging infrastructure tender
---
title: Award of Singapore's pilot electric vehicle charging infrastructure tender

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr21-31

date: 03 September 2021

---

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

  

  Published: 03 September 2021

The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) and the Land Transport Authority (LTA) have awarded the pilot tender for electric vehicle (EV) charging points in public car parks across Singapore. This will contribute towards the national target to deploy 40,000 charging points in public car parks by 2030.

ComfortDelGro Engineering Pte Ltd and its consortium partner, ENGIE South East Asia Pte Ltd, have been awarded the tender to set up EV charging points in participating public car parks in the Central, East and West regions. For participating car parks in the North and North-East regions, the tender to install EV charging infrastructure has been awarded to Primech A&P Pte Ltd and its consortium partners – Charge+ Pte Ltd, Sunseap Group Pte Ltd, and Oyika Pte Ltd. The breakdown of the concession fee payable to the Government for the right to install and operate the EV charging points by ComfortDelGro and Primech A&P can be found in [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2021/Sep/pr21-31a.pdf) \].

The awarded tender will see the deployment of more than 600 EV chargers at over 200 car parks in locations such as public housing and industrial estates, public parks, community centres and the Central Business District over the next 12 months. This will significantly increase the current number of EV charging points deployed island-wide. Please refer to [Annex B](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2021/Sep/pr21-31b.pdf)  for the indicative locations of the participating car parks.

**A sustainable public charging infrastructure ecosystem**

At this early stage of EV adoption, it is imperative to lay the foundation for a sustainable charging market. This can be achieved by ensuring that the pilot tender is awarded to EV charging operators with quality charging services, financially sustainable business models, and competitive charging prices.

As such, agencies adopted a price-quality method1 to assess and select proposals that would provide the best value for both consumers and the authorities. Following evaluation, the decision was made to award the tender to ComfortDelGro and Primech A&P. Besides having competitive charging rates and a sustainable business model, they committed to delivering a complete suite of services, which includes the installation, operation and maintenance of EV charging infrastructure, as well as trialling innovative solutions to optimise available electrical load and address usage issues such as lot hogging.

**Partnering industry to support EV adoption**

To support EV adoption in Singapore, it is critical for Government to partner the growing EV charging sector to build up a comprehensive and accessible charging network. The keen industry participation in this pilot tender demonstrates strong interest by the private sector to play a part in shaping Singapore's EV landscape.

URA and LTA will work closely with ComfortDelGro, Primech A&P, and their respective consortium partners to deploy the EV charging stations at their allotted car parks, which are expected to be installed and operational by the third quarter of 2022.



1 The price-quality method refers to a structured framework that takes into account both price and non-price attributes in tender evaluation.