## Tenancies for Turf City tenants to be extended until 31 December 2023
---
title: Tenancies for Turf City tenants to be extended until 31 December 2023

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr21-38

date: 30 September 2021

---

---------------------------------------------------------------------

 

  Published: 30 September 2021

The Singapore Land Authority (SLA) announced today that the tenancies of tenants at Turf City will be extended until 31 December 2023. This will be the final extension granted to tenants as agencies plan preparation works for future residential development at the site, taking into account the lead time required for future land preparation works.

The Turf City site has been safeguarded for future residential use since the Master Plan 1998, after the relocation of the Turf Club to Kranji (current Singapore Racecourse) was announced in 1993. This is to cater to future housing demand and provide a variety of housing choices in terms of location, density mix and forms to meet the diverse housing needs and aspirations of Singaporeans.

The SLA has been managing Turf City since 1999, and has been leasing out the site for lifestyle and recreational uses on an interim basis, as there had been no immediate development plans for the site. Today, SLA has 15 tenancies in Turf City for various uses which include retail, F&B, sports and recreation, childcare centres and motor vehicle showrooms, among others. The original tenancies for these interim uses were for periods until 31 December 2020.

In 2019, SLA granted an 18-month extension to the tenancies, from 1 January 2021 to 30 June 2022, allowing the interim uses to continue operating while development plans for the site were being studied.

Having considered the lead time required to prepare the site for future development, SLA will grant a final 18-month extension to 31 December 2023 for tenants to make the necessary transition plans. Agencies have informed the tenants that there will be no further extension beyond 31 December 2023.

Notwithstanding this, agencies have also informed a tenant, Bukit Timah Saddle Club (BTSC), that about 0.8ha within its tenanted boundary is needed for a worksite to support tunnelling works for the Cross Island Line, and have requested BTSC to return the affected area from 1st Half 2023.  Agencies will work closely with BTSC to minimise any disruption to their business operations.

Agencies are studying the development plans for the Turf City site, with land preparation works scheduled to commence after the tenancies end on 31 December 2023. As part of the planning process, detailed technical studies such as environmental and heritage studies are being carried out to ensure that the site is developed sensitively. When ready, agencies will engage relevant stakeholders to share more about the plans for the site and seek their feedback.

Agencies will continue to engage stakeholders to facilitate their transition plans. Tenants and sub-tenants may wish to consider participating in open tenders for State land/properties. SLA will also work closely with tenants on the return of State land/properties at the Turf City site.