## New appointments to the Urban Redevelopment Authority Board
---
title: New appointments to the Urban Redevelopment Authority Board

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr21-06

date: 31 March 2021

---

-----------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 31 March 2021

Four new members will be appointed to the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) Board with effect from 1 April 2021. Chairman of the board, Mr Peter Ho Hak Ean, who is also the Senior Advisor to the Centre for Strategic Futures at the Prime Minister's Office, will be reappointed, along with seven other members. Five members are stepping down from the board.

**New Board Members**

The four new members are:

i. Mr Sarjit Singh Gill, Senior Counsel, Senior Partner, Shook Lin & Bok LLP;

ii. Mr Goh Thien Phong, Partner, Head of Corporate Restructuring, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP;

iii. Dr Thang Leng Leng, Associate Professor, Head of Department of Japanese Studies, and Co-Director of Next Age Institute, Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, National University of Singapore; and

iv. Mr Keith Tan Kean Loong, Chief Executive, Singapore Tourism Board.

**Re-appointed Members**

In addition to Mr Ho, the seven re-appointed members are:

i. Mr Khew Sin Khoon, President & Group Chief Executive Officer, CPG Corporation Pte Ltd;

ii. Ms Judy Hsu, Chief Executive Officer, Consumer, Private and Business Banking, Standard Chartered Bank;

iii. Ms Angelene Chan, Chairman, DP Architects Pte Ltd;

iv. Mr Chang York Chye, Bill, Chief Executive Officer, Group Enterprise, Singtel;

v. Mr Ong Kim Pong, Regional Chief Executive Officer, Southeast Asia, PSA International Pte Ltd;

vi. Mr Khairudin Saharom, Principal and Director, Kite Studio Architecture Pte; and

vii. Mr Lim Eng Hwee, Chief Executive Officer, URA.

**Members stepping down**

The five board members stepping down at the end of their term on 31 March 2021 are:

i. Mr Tan Chee Meng, Senior Counsel, Deputy Chairman, WongPartnership LLP;

ii. Mr Nagaraj Sivaram;

iii. Professor Brenda Yeoh Saw Ai, Director, Humanities & Social Science Research, Office of Deputy President (Research & Technology), National University of Singapore;

iv. Dr Cheong Wei Yang, Deputy Secretary (Special Projects), Ministry of Health; and

v. Mr Ngien Hoon Ping, Chief Executive Officer, Supply Chain Business, FairPrice Group.

With these appointment changes, the URA Board will have 12 members, including Mr Ho. All appointments will be for a two-year term until 31 March 2023. The full list of URA board members is appended in the [Annex](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2021/Mar/pr21-06a.pdf) .

The Ministry of National Development (MND) and URA welcome the new board members and look forward to the continued support of the reappointed Chairman and board members. MND and URA also extend our appreciation to all outgoing board members for their invaluable service, guidance and contributions during their tenure.



**Jointly issued by: Ministry of National Development and Urban Redevelopment Authority**