## Turf City redevelopment plans on track, agencies to continue engaging Turf City tenants on transition plans
---
title: Turf City redevelopment plans on track, agencies to continue engaging Turf City tenants on transition plans

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr22-35

date: 23 September 2022

---

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 23 September 2022

The Turf City site has been safeguarded for future residential use since the Master Plan 1998. This is to cater to future housing demand and provide a variety of housing choices in terms of location, density mix and forms to meet the diverse housing needs and aspirations of Singaporeans.   
  
As announced by the Land Transport Authority on 20 September 2022, one of the six stations in Phase 2 of the Cross Island Line will be sited at Turf City, which will improve public transport accessibility and connectivity for the area. The redevelopment of brownfield sites such as Turf City will allow the Government to make optimal use of the land and transport infrastructure.   
  
As part of the planning process, detailed technical studies such as environmental and heritage studies are being carried out to ensure that any development will be sensitively integrated with its surrounding environment. Where feasible, we will retain and integrate key existing natural and heritage elements into the future master plan for the area. Agencies will engage relevant stakeholders to share more about the plans for the site and seek their feedback when ready.   
  
The Singapore Land Authority (SLA) has been managing Turf City since 1999 and the site has been leased out for lifestyle and recreational uses including retail, F&B, sports and recreation, childcare centres, and motor vehicle showrooms, among others. The original tenancies for these interim uses were for periods up to 31 December 2020.  
  
Since 2019, tenants have been reminded of the need to vacate the site due to future development plans for Turf City, and were given two successive 18-month tenancy extensions up to 31 December 2023 to allow more time for tenants to firm up their transition and winding down plans. This provided most Turf City tenants with around a 4-year lead time to plan their transition.   
  
Tenants were reminded again today that no further extensions beyond 31 December 2023 will be granted as the Turf City site is required for future residential development. This follows an earlier announcement by SLA and the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) in September 2021 that the existing tenancies at Turf City would be granted a final 18-month extension until 31 December 20231, taking into consideration the lead time agencies require to prepare for future residential developments at the site. Works on the Cross Island Line as well as preparation works for the future residential development will commence progressively after the tenancies end on 31 December 2023.  
  
Agencies have already been engaging tenants to assist them in firming up their transition plans and will continue to engage them closely and share information on available sites for open tender. All tenants can consider participating in open tenders for State land/properties, taking into account the 31 December 2023 deadline in making their transition plans. SLA will also work closely with tenants on the return of State land/properties at the Turf City site on or before the 31 December 2023 deadline.



1 This excludes the tenancy for Bukit Timah Saddle Club (BTSC). Agencies had informed BTSC that about 0.8ha within its tenanted boundary will be needed for a worksite to support tunnelling works for the Cross Island Line and had requested BTSC to return the affected area from the 1st half of 2023. Following discussions with agencies, BTSC has opted for a tenancy extension until 28 February 2023 for its entire tenanted site.