## New appointments to the Urban Redevelopment Authority Board
---
title: New appointments to the Urban Redevelopment Authority Board

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr23-06

date: 31 March 2023

---

-----------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 31 March 2023

Four new members will be appointed to the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) Board with effect from 1 April 2023. Chairman of the board, Mr Peter Ho Hak Ean, who is also the Senior Advisor to the Centre for Strategic Futures at the Prime Minister's Office, will be reappointed, along with seven other members. Four members are stepping down from the board.  
  
**New Board Members**  
  
The four new members are:  
  
i. Dr Chong Yoke Sin, Managing Partner, iGlobe Partners Pte Ltd;  
  
ii. Ms Choo Oi Yee, Chief Executive Officer, ADDX;  
  
iii. Mr Zahidi Abdul Rahman, Principal Architect, Zahidi A R Arkitek; and  
  
iv. Mrs Nina Yang, Chief Executive Officer, SJ CityGlobal, Surbana Jurong Pte Ltd.  
  
**Re-appointed Members**  
  
In addition to Mr Peter Ho, the seven re-appointed members are:  
  
i. Mr Chang York Chye, Bill, Chief Executive Officer, Group Enterprise & Regional Data Centre Business, Singtel;  
  
ii. Mr Ong Kim Pong, Regional Chief Executive Officer, Southeast Asia, PSA International Pte Ltd;   
  
iii. Mr Sarjit Singh Gill, Senior Counsel, Senior Partner, Shook Lin & Bok LLP;  
  
iv. Mr Goh Thien Phong, Founder and Managing Director, GTP Advisory PAC;  
  
v. Mr Keith Tan Kean Loong, Chief Executive, Singapore Tourism Board;   
  
vi. Dr Thang Leng Leng, Associate Professor, and Co-Director of Next Age Institute, Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, National University of Singapore; and  
  
vii. Mr Lim Eng Hwee, Chief Executive Officer, URA.  
  
**Members who are stepping down**  
  
The four board members stepping down at the end of their term on 31 March 2023 are:  
  
i. Mr Khew Sin Khoon, President and Group Chief Executive Officer, CPG Corporation Pte Ltd;  
  
ii. Ms Angelene Chan, Chairman, DP Architects Pte Ltd;   
  
iii. Ms Judy Hsu, Chief Executive Officer, Consumer, Private and Business Banking, Standard Chartered Bank; and  
  
iv. Mr Khairudin Saharom, Principal and Director, Kite Studio Architecture Pte.   
  
With these appointment changes, the URA Board will have 12 members, including Mr Peter Ho. All appointments will be for a two-year term until 31 March 2025. The full list of URA board members is appended in the [Annex](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2023/Mar/pr23-06a_1.pdf) .  
  
The Ministry of National Development (MND) and URA welcome the new board members and look forward to the continued support of the Chairman and board members. MND and URA also extend our appreciation to all outgoing board members for their invaluable service, guidance and contributions during their tenure.



**Jointly issued by:**

**Ministry of National Development and Urban Redevelopment Authority**