## Coming together to make Singapore a more liveable, inclusive and endearing home – Launch of the Draft Master Plan 2025 public engagement exercise
---
title: Coming together to make Singapore a more liveable, inclusive and endearing home – Launch of the Draft Master Plan 2025 public engagement exercise

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr23-36

date: 05 October 2023

---

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 05 October 2023

New homes in more central locations, a Recreation Master Plan and enhanced Identity Corridors are just some of the plans that the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) will engage Singaporeans and stakeholders on over the next two years as part of the latest review of the Master Plan. The review will culminate in a presentation of the Draft Master Plan 2025 (DMP25), detailing land use and development plans for Singapore over the next 10 to 15 years.  
  
Mr Desmond Lee, Minister for National Development and Minister-in-charge of Social Services Integration, launched the public engagement exercise this morning when he unveiled five new and improved connections under Phase 1 of the Bishan-to-City (B2C) Links project. These connections were first presented in 2017 as part of plans to revitalise areas along the Kallang River. Minister Lee also announced that construction works for the final connection across the Pan-Island Expressway (PIE) – including Singapore's longest elevated pedestrian and cycling bridge – will soon commence under Phase 2 of the project.  
  
When fully completed, the B2C links will connect communities along the river, providing users a seamless 10km green commute along the Kallang Park Connector from Bishan to the city as well as contribute to a more sustainable, car-lite and healthier city. Refer to **[Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2023/Oct/pr23-36a.pdf)**  for more information on the B2C Links project.  
  
**Stewarding our limited land resources and balancing diverse needs**  
  
Long-term planning has guided us in managing our limited land resources and shaped the city we live, work and play in today. To ensure that Singapore continues to be an endearing home where generations of Singaporeans can continue to achieve their aspirations and thrive, we must work together to find solutions to meet our diverse needs and steward our land.  
  
In the Long-Term Plan Review (LTPR) that concluded last year, URA engaged over 15,000 Singaporeans from all walks of life to re-imagine how Singapore can meet our diverse needs over the next 50 years and beyond. Ideas to better optimise Singapore's scarce land resources and safeguard options for future generations as well as how Singapore can remain sustainable in an increasingly complex and uncertain environment were discussed. From the LTPR engagements, URA developed seven pillars to guide Singapore's long-term development strategies. Refer to **[Annex B](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2023/Oct/pr23-36b.pdf)**  for a summary of these pillars.  
  
**Coming together to make Singapore a more liveable, inclusive and endearing home**  
  
In this latest review of the Master Plan, URA will build on the conversations from the LTPR and engage Singaporeans and stakeholders to co-create the DMP25, aimed at making Singapore a more liveable, inclusive and endearing home.  
  
Over the next two years, URA and partner agencies will seek ideas and feedback from Singaporeans and stakeholders on various plans, through platforms such as competitions, exhibitions and focus group discussions. The four broad themes for DMP25, translated from the LTPR pillars, are as follows:  
  
i) Shape a Happy Healthy City  
The DMP25 aims to improve housing accessibility and affordability by providing more liveable and inclusive homes for all, with neighbourhoods and spaces that support families, ageing-in-place and active living. Plans will also focus on enhancing active mobility networks and the rejuvenation of towns under the Housing & Development Board's (HDB) Remaking our Heartland programme.  
  
Key proposals include siting new homes and neighbourhoods in more central locations, developing a Recreation Master Plan and building on the ideas and proposals being developed for the Health District @ Queenstown.  
  
ii) Strengthen Urban Resilience  
To combat climate change, optimise our limited land resources and respond nimbly to future challenges, the DMP25 will focus on capitalising on our sea, underground and under-utilised spaces as well as co-locating multiple uses. It will also look to innovatively integrate nature-based solutions with infrastructure.  
  
Key proposals include studying measures for coastal protection and heat resilience, and expanding efforts to use our underground space.  
  
iii) Enable Sustainable Growth  
To sustain a thriving economy that meets the evolving needs of businesses and workers, the DMP25 will focus on injecting more flexible and mixed-use workspaces in areas like Jurong Lake District.  
  
The government is also studying more sale sites with different lease durations and densities to foster innovation, adapt to emerging trends and nurture vibrant commercial nodes to bring jobs closer to homes.  
  
iv) Steward our Nature and Heritage  
We will continue to carefully balance development with our nature and heritage assets to shape a home that is anchored on a strong sense of identity. The DMP25 aims to bring nature closer to people, enhance green and blue spaces, and strengthen the distinctive character and heritage of our towns.  
  
URA will engage stakeholders to further develop the Heritage and Identity Structure Plan introduced in the LTPR as well as new plans to enhance Identity Corridors, such as the Thomson-Kallang Identity Corridor1 and Rail Corridor.  
  
Refer to **[Annex C](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2023/Oct/pr23-36c.pdf)**  for more details on some projects under each theme.  
  
Mr Lim Eng Hwee, Chief Executive Officer of URA, said, "We believe that our plans will be truly relevant and meaningful only when they reflect the collective aspirations and hopes of Singaporeans. It is therefore important for us to work together to discuss ideas and opinions as well as understand the challenges involved, to establish a common vision for our future urban environment. We look forward to having fruitful conversations with Singaporeans and stakeholders in shaping Draft Master Plan 2025."  
  
**Join us in shaping our city together**  
  
Members of the public can visit go.gov.sg/URADraftMasterPlan to indicate their areas of interest, stay updated on the DMP25 and sign up for public engagement activities.



1The Thomson-Kallang Corridor was one of five Identity Corridors introduced in the Long-Term Plan Review, defined by their unique streetscapes, heritage, and experiences. The others are the Historic East, Inner Ring, Rail Corridor, and Southern Ridges and Coast Identity Corridors.