## Tender award for URA sale sites at Clementi Avenue 1, Pine Grove (Parcel B) and Lorong 1 Toa Payoh
---
title: Tender award for URA sale sites at Clementi Avenue 1, Pine Grove (Parcel B) and Lorong 1 Toa Payoh

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr23-42

date: 15 November 2023

---


                                    Published: 15 November 2023

    The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) has awarded the tenders for the sites at Clementi Avenue 1, Pine Grove (Parcel B) and Lorong 1 Toa Payoh to the highest tenderers, namely CSC Land Group (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. and Caspian Residential 3 Pte. Ltd. for the site at Clementi Avenue 1; Golden Ray Edge 3 Pte. Ltd. for the site at Pine Grove (Parcel B); and CDL Constellation Pte. Ltd., Frasers Property Phoenix Pte. Ltd. and Sekisui House, Ltd. for the site at Lorong 1 Toa Payoh.

The sites at Clementi Avenue 1 and Pine Grove (Parcel B) were launched for tender on 15 August 2023 while the site at Lorong 1 Toa Payoh was launched on 5 September 2023. The tenders for these sites closed on 7 November 2023. The sites were offered for sale on 99-year lease terms.

Details of the awarded sites and the successful tenderers are provided below:

            LOCATION
            ALLOWABLE
            DEVELOPMENT
            SITE AREA
            MAXIMUM
            PERMISSIBLE
            GROSS FLOOR
            AREA (GFA)
             SUCCESSFUL
            TENDERER
            TENDERED PRICE
            ($PSM of GFA)

            Clementi Avenue 1

            Residential

            13,451.1 m2
             47,079 m2
             CSC Land Group (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. and Caspian Residential 3 Pte. Ltd.
             $633,447,945.00
            ($13,455.00)

             Pine Grove (Parcel B)
            Residential
            25,039.2 m2
             52,583 m2
             Golden Ray Edge 3 Pte. Ltd.
            $692,388,000.00
            ($13,167.53)

             Lorong 1 Toa Payoh
             Residential
            15,743.0 m2
             66,121 m2
             CDL Constellation Pte. Ltd., Frasers Property Phoenix Pte. Ltd. and Sekisui House, Ltd.

             $968,000,000.00
            ($14,639.83)