## Tender closing for Master Developer site at Jurong Lake District
---
title: Tender closing for Master Developer site at Jurong Lake District

link: https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Media-Room/Media-Releases/pr24-10

date: 26 March 2024

---

----------------------------------------------------------------

  Published: 26 March 2024

The Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) closed the tender for the Master Developer site at Jurong Lake District (JLD) today.

Two tender submissions were received. Please see [Annex A](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2024/Mar/pr24-10a.pdf)  for the particulars of the tenderers.

**Master Developer site to propel development of future business district in Jurong Lake District**   
  
The 6.5-hectare White site at Jurong Lake District (JLD) was launched for sale as a Master Developer site on 22 June 2023, to kickstart the next phase of development in JLD as Singapore's largest business district outside the city centre. This Master Developer site would help cater to demand for office, private residential and complementary spaces1 in the medium term.  
  
The site comprises three plots of land linking the existing commercial centre at Jurong East MRT interchange station to the future Jurong Lake District station of the Cross Island Line in the new precinct. The new mixed-use developments on the site are envisioned to be progressively developed over the next 10 to 15 years, and be well-integrated with public spaces and amenities to provide a distinctive and inclusive environment to serve the needs of communities, businesses as well as the general public.   
  
The Master Developer is required to comprehensively master plan the entire site to integrate the various uses and coordinate implementation of the development. With more flexibility in proposed uses, the expanded JLD allows companies to experiment with new development concepts and innovative ways to integrate live, work and play in a green and car-lite precinct. In line with the larger sustainability objectives for JLD, the Master Developer is to adopt district-level urban solutions such as a district cooling system and district pneumatic waste conveyancing system. These systems allow for more efficient delivery of urban services, in the supply of chilled water and management of waste disposal at a district level. They will also help shape JLD into a model sustainable district with new developments to achieve net-zero emissions around 2045, earlier than the national target of 2050.   
  
**Concept and Price Tender to ensure selected tender proposal is aligned with vision for JLD**  
  
The Concept and Price Revenue tender approach is adopted to evaluate tender submissions for this site.   
  
Tenderers are required to submit their concept proposals and tender prices separately. The concept proposals will first be evaluated by a Concept Evaluation Committee against a set of criteria specified in the tender (see [Annex B](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Media-Room/2024/Mar/pr24-10b.pdf) ), to shortlist concept proposals that are aligned with the vision for the JLD, i.e. proposals that feature a distinctive, highly sustainable mixed-use development with well-designed people-friendly public spaces and amenities to serve the needs of business and local communities. Only compelling concept proposals that are shortlisted will proceed to the second stage, which will be based on price only.  
  
This is not an announcement of tender award. A decision on the award of the tender will be made after the tender submissions have been evaluated. This will be published at a later date.



1 These include spaces for shops, restaurants, entertainment, hotel, serviced apartments and civic and community uses.